7:1
And it came to pass, when the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed,

7:2
that I gave charge to Ananias my brother, and Ananias the ruler of the palace, over Jerusalem: for he was a true man, and one that feared God beyond many.

7:3
And I said to them, The gates of Jerusalem shall not be opened till sunrise; and while they are still watching, let the doors be shut, and bolted; and set watches of them that dwell in Jerusalem, \add every\add* man at his post, and \add every\add* man over against his house.

7:4
Now the city \add was\add* wide and large; and the people \add were\add* few in it, and the houses were not built.

7:5
And God put \add it\add* into my heart, and I gathered the nobles, and the rulers, and the people, into companies: and I found a register of the company that came up first, and I found written in it as follows:

7:6
Now these \add are\add* the children of the country, that came up from captivity, of the number which Nabuchodonosor king of Babylon carried away, and they returned to Jerusalem and to Juda, \add every\add* man to his city;

7:7
with Zorobabel, and Jesus, and Neemia, Azaria, and Reelma, Naemani, Mardochaeus, Balsan, Maspharath, Esdra, Boguia, Inaum, Baana, Masphar, men of the people of Israel.

7:8
The children of Phoros, two thousand one hundred and seventy-two.

7:9
The children of Saphatia, three hundred and seventy-two.

7:10
The children of Era, six hundred and fifty-two.

7:11
The children of Phaath Moab, with the children of Jesus and Joab, two thousand six hundred and eighteen.

7:12
The children of Aelam, a thousand two hundred and fifty-four.

7:13
The children of Zathuia, eight hundred and forty-five.

7:14
The children of Zacchu, seven hundred and sixty.

7:15
The children of Banui, six hundred and forty-eight.

7:16
The children of Bebi, six hundred and twenty-eight.

7:17
The children of Asgad, two thousand three hundred and twenty-two.

7:18
The children of Adonicam, six hundred and sixty-seven.

7:19
The children of Bagoi, two thousand and sixty-seven.

7:20
The children of Edin, six hundred and fifty-five.

7:21
The children of Ater, \add the son\add* of Ezekias, ninety-eight.

7:22
The children of Esam, three hundred and twenty-eight.

7:23
The children of Besei, three hundred and twenty-four.

7:24
The children of Ariph, a hundred and twelve: the children of Asen, two hundred and twenty-three.

7:25
The children of Gabaon, ninety-five.

7:26
The children of Baethalem, a hundred and twenty-three: the children of Atopha, fifty-six.

7:27
The children of Anathoth, a hundred and twenty-eight.

7:28
The men of Bethasmoth, forty-two.

7:29
The men of Cariatharim, Caphira, and Beroth, seven hundred and forty-three.

7:30
The men of Arama and Gabaa, six hundred and twenty.

7:31
The men of Machemas, a hundred and twenty-two.

7:32
The men of Baethel and Ai, a hundred and twenty-three.

7:33
The men of Nabia, a hundred an fifty-two.

7:34
The men of Elamaar, one thousand two hundred and fifty-two.

7:35
The children of Eram, three hundred and twenty.

7:36
The children of Jericho, three hundred and forty-five.

7:37
The children of Lodadid and Ono, seven hundred and twenty-one.

7:38
The children of Sanana, three thousand nine hundred and thirty.

7:39
The priests; the sons of Jodae, \add pertaining\add* to the house of Jesus, nine hundred and seventy-three.

7:40
The children of Emmer, one thousand and fifty-two.

7:41
The children of Phaseur, one thousand two hundred and forty-seven.

7:42
The children of Eram, a thousand and seventeen.

7:43
The Levites; the children of Jesus the son of Cadmiel, with the children of Uduia, seventy-four.

7:44
The singers; the children of Asaph, a hundred and forty-eight.

7:45
The porters; the children of Salum, the children of Ater, the children of Telmon, the children of Acub, the children of Atita, the children of Sabi, a hundred and thirty-eight.

7:46
The Nathinim; the children of Sea, the children of Aspha, the children of Tabaoth,

7:47
the children of Kiras, the children of Asuia, the children of Phadon,

7:48
the children of Labana, the children of Agaba, the children of Selmei,

7:49
the children of Anan, the children of Gadel, the children of Gaar,

7:50
the children of Raaia, the children of Rasson, the children of Necoda,

7:51
the children of Gezam, the children of Ozi, the children of Phese,

7:52
the children of Besi, the children of Meinon, the children of Nephosasi,

7:53
the children of Bacbuc, the children of Achipha, the children of Arur,

7:54
the children of Basaloth, the children of Mida, the children of Adasan,

7:55
the children of Barcue, the children of Sisarath, the children of Thema,

7:56
the children of Nisia, the children of Atipha.

7:57
The children of the servants of Solomon; the children of Sutei, the children of Sapharat, the children of Pherida,

7:58
the children of Jelel, the children of Dorcon, the children of Gadael,

7:59
the children of Saphatia, the children of Ettel, the children of Phacarath, the children of Sabaim, the children of Emim.

7:60
All the Nathinim, and children of the servants of Solomon, \add were\add* three hundred and ninety-two.

7:61
And these went up from Thelmeleth, Thelaresa, Charub, Eron, Jemer: but they could not declare the houses of their families, or their seed, whether they were of Israel.

7:62
The children of Dalaia, the children of Tobia, the children of Necoda, six hundred and forty-two.

7:63
And of the priests; the children of Ebia, the children of Acos, the children of Berzelli, for they took wives of the daughters of Berzelli the Galaadite, and they were called by their name.

7:64
These sought the pedigree of their company, and it was not found, and they were removed \add as polluted\add* from the priesthood.

7:65
And the Athersastha said, that they should not eat of the most holy things, until a priest should stand up to give light.

7:66
And all the congregation was about forty-two thousand three hundred and sixty,

7:67
besides their men-servants and their maid-servants: these were seven thousand three hundred and thirty seven: and the singing-men and singing-women, two hundred and forty-five.

7:69
Two thousand seven hundred asses.

7:70
And part of the heads of families gave into the treasury to Neemias for the work a thousand pieces of gold, fifty bowls, and thirty priests' \add garments\add*.

7:71
And \add some\add* of the heads of families gave into the treasuries of the work, twenty thousand pieces of gold, and two thousand three hundred pounds of silver.

7:72
And the rest of the people gave twenty thousand pieces of gold, and two thousand two hundred pounds of silver, and sixty-seven priests' \add garments\add*.

7:73
And the priests, and Levites, and porters, and singers, and \add some\add* of the people, and the Nathinim, and all Israel, dwelt in their cities.
