35:1
And it came to pass in the fourth year of Sedekias king of Juda, in the fifth month, \add that\add* Ananias the false prophet, the son of Azor, from Gabaon, spoke to me in the house of the Lord, in the sight of the priests and all the people, saying,

35:2
Thus saith the Lord; I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon.

35:3
Yet two full years, and I will return into this place the vessels of the house of the Lord,

35:4
and Jechonias, and the captivity of Juda: for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.

35:5
Then Jeremias spoke to Ananias in the sight of all the people, and in the sight of the priests that stood in the house of the Lord,

35:6
and Jeremias said, May the Lord indeed do thus; may he confirm thy word which thou dost prophesy, to return the vessels of the house of the Lord, and all the captivity, out of Babylon to this place.

35:7
Nevertheless hear ye the word of the Lord which I speak in your ears, and in the ears of all the people.

35:8
The prophets that were before me and before you of old, also prophesied over much country, and against great kingdoms, concerning war.

35:9
\add As for\add* the prophet that has prophesied for peace, when the word has come \add to pass\add*, they shall know the prophet whom the Lord has sent them in truth.

35:10
Then Ananias took the yokes from the neck of Jeremias in the sight of all the people, and broke them to pieces.

35:11
And Ananias spoke in the presence of all the people, saying, Thus said the Lord; Thus will I break the yoke of the king of Babylon from the necks of all the nations. And Jeremias went his way.

35:12
And the word of the Lord came to Jeremias, after that Ananias had broken the yokes off his neck, saying,

35:13
Go and speak to Ananias, saying, Thus saith the Lord; Thou hast broken the yokes of wood; but I will make instead of them yokes of iron.

35:14
For thus said the Lord, I have put a yoke of iron on the neck of all the nations, that they may serve the king of Babylon.

35:15
And Jeremias said to Ananias, The Lord has not sent thee; and thou hast caused this people to trust in unrighteousness.

35:16
Therefore thus said the Lord: Behold, I \add will\add* cast thee off from the face of the earth: this year thou shalt die.

35:17
So he died in the seventh month.
