25:1
\sc The Word that came to Jeremias\sc* concerning all the people of Juda in the fourth year of Joakim, son of Josias, king of Juda;

25:2
which he spoke to all the people of Juda, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying,

25:3
In the thirteenth year of Josias, son of Amos, king of Juda, even until this day for three and twenty years, I have both spoken to you, rising early and speaking,

25:4
and I sent to you my servants the prophets, sending them early; (but ye hearkened not, and listened not with your ears;) saying,

25:5
Turn ye every one from his evil way, and from your evil practices, and ye shall dwell in the land which I gave to you and your fathers, of old and for ever.

25:6
Go ye not after strange gods, to serve them, and to worship them, that ye provoke me not by the works of your hands, to do you hurt.

25:7
But ye hearkened not to me.

25:8
Therefore thus saith the Lord; Since ye believed not my words,

25:9
behold, I \add will\add* send and take a family from the north, and will bring them against this land, and against the inhabitants of it, and against all the nations round about it, and I will make them utterly waste, and make them a desolation, and a hissing, and an everlasting reproach.

25:10
And I will destroy from \add among\add* them the voice of joy, and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride, the scent of ointment, and the light of a candle.

25:11
And all the land shall be a desolation; and they shall serve among the Gentiles seventy years.

25:12
And when the seventy years are fulfilled, I will take vengeance on that nation, and will make them a perpetual desolation.

25:13
And I will bring upon that land all my words which I have spoken against it, \add even\add* all things that are written in this book.

25:14
\sc The Prophecies of Jeremias against the Nations of Ælam.\sc*

25:15
Thus saith the Lord, The bow of Ælam is broken, \add even\add* the chief of their power.

25:16
And I will bring upon Ælam the four winds from the four corners of heaven, and I will disperse them toward all these winds; and there shall be no nation \add to\add* which they shall not come—\add even\add* the outcasts of Ælam.

25:17
And I will put them in fear before their enemies that seek their life; and I will bring evils upon them according to my great anger; and I will send forth my sword after them, until I have utterly destroyed them.

25:18
And I will set my throne in Ælam, and will send forth thence king and rulers.

25:19
But it shall come to pass at the end of days, that I will turn the captivity of Ælam, saith the Lord.

25:20
In the beginning of the reign of king Sedekias, there came this word concerning Ælam.
