20:1
Now Paschor the son of Emmer, the priest, who also had been appointed chief of the house of the Lord, heard Jeremias prophesying these words.

20:2
And he smote him, and cast him into the dungeon which was by the gate of the upper house that was set apart, which was by the house of the Lord.

20:3
And Paschor brought Jeremias out of the dungeon: and Jeremias said to him, \add The Lord\add* has not called thy name Paschor, but Exile.

20:4
For thus saith the Lord, Behold, I \add will\add* give thee up to captivity with all thy friends: and they shall fall by the sword of their enemies, and thine eyes shall see \add it\add*: and I will give thee and all Juda into the hands of the king of Babylon, and they shall carry them captives, and cut them in pieces with swords.

20:5
And I will give all the strength of this city, and all the labours of it, and all the treasures of the king of Juda, into the hands of his enemies, and they shall bring them to Babylon.

20:6
And thou and all the dwellers in thine house shall go into captivity: and thou shalt die in Babylon, and there thou and all thy friends shall be buried, to whom thou hast prophesied lies.

20:7
Thou hast deceived me, O Lord, and I have been deceived: thou hast been strong, and hast prevailed: I am become a laughing-stock, I am continually mocked every day.

20:8
For I will laugh with my bitter speech, I will call upon rebellion and misery: for the word of the Lord is become a reproach to me and a mockery all my days.

20:9
Then I said, I will by no means name the name of the Lord, and I will no more at all speak in his name. But it was as burning fire flaming in my bones, and I am utterly weakened on all sides, and cannot bear \add up\add*.

20:10
For I have heard the reproach of many gathering round, \add saying\add*, Conspire ye, and let us conspire together against him, \add even\add* all his friends: watch his intentions, if perhaps he shall be deceived, and we shall prevail against him, and we shall be avenged on him.

20:11
But the Lord was with me as a mighty man of war: therefore they persecuted \add me\add*, but could not perceive \add anything against me\add*; they were greatly confounded, for they perceived not their disgrace, which shall never be forgotten.

20:12
O Lord, that provest just \add deeds\add*, understanding the reins and hearts, let me see thy vengeance upon them: for to thee I have revealed my cause.

20:13
Sing ye to the Lord, sing praise to him: for he has rescued the soul of the poor from the hand of evil-doers.

20:14
Cursed be the day wherein I was born: the day wherein my mother brought me forth, let it not be blessed.

20:15
Cursed be the man who brought the glad tidings to my father, saying, A male child is born to thee.

20:16
Let that man rejoice as the cities which the Lord overthrew in wrath, and repented not: let him hear crying in the morning, and loud lamentation at noon;

20:17
because he slew me not in the womb, and my mother became not my tomb, and her womb always great with me.

20:18
Why is it that I came forth of the womb to see troubles and distresses, and my days are spent in shame?
