47:1
The word that came from the Lord to Jeremias, after that Nabuzardan the captain of the guard had let him go out of Rama, when he had taken him in manacles in the midst of the captivity of Juda, \add even\add* those who were carried to Babylon.

47:2
And the chief captain of the guard took him, and said to him, The Lord thy God has pronounced all these evils upon this place:

47:3
and the Lord has done it; because ye sinned against him, and hearkened not to his voice.

47:4
Behold, I have loosed thee from the manacles that were upon thine hands. If it seem good to thee to go with me to Babylon, then will I set mine eyes upon thee.

47:5
But if not, depart; return to Godolias the son of Achicam, the son of Saphan, whom the king of Babylon has appointed governor in the land of Juda, and dwell with him in the midst of the people in the land of Juda: to whatsoever places it seems good in thine eyes to go, do thou even go. And the captain of the guard made him presents, and let him go.

47:6
And he came to Godolias to Massepha, and dwelt in the midst of his people that was left in the land.

47:7
And all the leaders of the host that was in the country, they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Godolias \add governor\add* in the land, and they committed to him the men and their wives, whom \add Nabuchodonosor had\add* not removed to Babylon.

47:8
And there came to Godolias to Massepha Ismael the son of Nathanias, and Joanan son of Caree, and Saræas the son of Thanaemeth, and the sons of Jophe the Netophathite, and Ezonias son of the Mochathite, they and their men.

47:9
And Godolias swore to them and to their men, saying, Be not afraid before the children of the Chaldeans: dwell in the land, and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be better for you.

47:10
And, behold, I dwell in your presence at Massepha, to stand before the Chaldeans who shall come against you: and do ye gather grapes, and fruits, and oil, and put \add them\add* into your vessels, and dwell in the cities which ye have obtained possession of.

47:11
And all the Jews that were in Moab, and among the children of Ammon, and those \add that were\add* in Idumea, and those \add that were\add* in all \add the rest of\add* the country, heard that the king of Babylon \add had\add* granted a remnant to Juda, and that he had appointed over them Godolias the son of Achicam.

47:12
And they came to Godolias into the land of Juda, to Massepha, and gathered grapes, and very much summer fruit, and oil.

47:13
And Joanan the son of Caree, and all the leaders of the host, who were in the fields, came to Godolias to Massepha,

47:14
and said to him, Dost thou indeed know that king Beleissa son of Ammon has sent Ismael to thee to slay thee? But Godolias believed them not.

47:15
And Joanan said to Godolias secretly in Massepha, I will go now and smite Ismael, and let no man know \add it\add*; lest he slay thee, and all the Jews that are gathered to thee be dispersed, and the remnant of Juda perish.

47:16
But Godolias said to Joanan, Do not the thing, for thou speakest lies concerning Ismael.
