44:1
And Sedekias the son of Josias reigned instead of Joakim, whom Nabuchodonosor appointed to reign over Juda.

44:2
And he and his servants and the people of the land hearkened not to the words of the Lord, which he spoke by Jeremias.

44:3
And king Sedekias sent Joachal son of Selemias and Sophonias the priest son of Maasæas to Jeremias, saying, Pray now for us to the Lord.

44:4
Now Jeremias came and went through the midst of the city: for they \add had\add* not put him into the house of the prison.

44:5
And the host of Pharao was come forth out of Egypt; and the Chaldeans heard the report of them, and they went up from Jerusalem.

44:6
And the word of the Lord came to Jeremias, saying,

44:7
Thus said the Lord; Thus shalt thou say to the king of Juda who sent to thee, to seek me; Behold, the army of Pharao which is come forth to help you: they shall return to the land of Egypt:

44:8
and the Chaldeans themselves shall turn again, and fight against this city, and take it, and burn it with fire.

44:9
For thus saith the Lord; Suppose not in your hearts, saying, The Chaldeans will certainly depart from us: for they shall not depart.

44:10
And though ye should smite the whole host of the Chaldeans that fight against you, and there should be left a few wounded \add men\add*, these should rise up each in his place, and burn this city with fire.

44:11
And it came to pass, when the host of the Chaldeans had gone up from Jerusalem for fear of the host of Pharao,

44:12
that Jeremias went forth from Jerusalem to go into the land of Benjamin, to buy thence \add a property\add* in the midst of the people.

44:13
And he was in the gate of Benjamin, and \add there was\add* there a man with whom he lodged, Saruia the son of Selemias, the son of Ananias; and he caught Jeremias, saying, Thou art fleeing to the Chaldeans.

44:14
And he said, \add It is\add* false; I do not flee to the Chaldeans. But he hearkened not to him; and Saruia caught Jeremias, and brought him to the princes.

44:15
And the princes were very angry with Jeremias, and smote him, and sent him into the house of Jonathan the scribe: for they had made this a prison.

44:16
So Jeremias came into the dungeon, and into the cells, and he remained there many days.

44:17
Then Sedekias sent, and called him; and the king asked him secretly, saying, Is there a word from the Lord? and he said, There is: thou shalt be delivered into the hands of the king of Babylon.

44:18
And Jeremias said to the king, Wherein have I wronged thee, or thy servants, or this people, that thou puttest me in prison?

44:19
And where are your prophets who prophesied to you saying, The king of Babylon shall not come against this land?

44:20
Now therefore, my lord the king, let my supplication come before thy face: and why dost thou send me back to the house of Jonathan the scribe? and let me not on any account die there.

44:21
Then the king commanded, and they cast him into the prison, and gave him a loaf a day out of the place where they bake, until the bread failed out of the city. So Jeremias continued in the court of the prison.
