38:1
At that time, saith the Lord, I will be a God to the family of Israel, and they shall be to me a people.

38:2
Thus saith the Lord, I found him warm in the wilderness with them that were slain with the sword: go ye and destroy not Israel.

38:3
The Lord appeared to him from afar, \add saying\add*, I have loved thee with an everlasting love: therefore have I drawn thee in compassion.

38:4
For I will build thee, and thou shalt be built, O virgin of Israel: thou shalt yet take thy timbrel, and go forth with the party of them that make merry.

38:5
For ye have planted vineyards on the mountains of Samaria: plant ye, and praise.

38:6
For it is a day when those that plead on the mountains of Ephraim shall call, \add saying\add*, Arise ye, and go up to Sion to the Lord your God.

38:7
For thus saith the Lord to Jacob; Rejoice ye, and exult over the head of the nations: make proclamation, and praise ye: say, The Lord has delivered his people, the remnant of Israel.

38:8
Behold, I bring them from the north, and will gather them from the end of the earth to the feast of the passover: and \add the people\add* shall beget a great multitude, and they shall return hither.

38:9
They went forth with weeping, and I will bring them back with consolation, causing them to lodge by the channels of waters in a straight way, and they shall not err in it: for I am become a father to Israel, and Ephraim is my first-born.

38:10
Hear the words of the Lord, ye nations, and proclaim \add them\add* to the islands afar off; say, He that scattered Israel will also gather him, and keep him as one that feeds his flock.

38:11
For the Lord has ransomed Jacob, he has rescued him out of the hand of them \add that were\add* stronger than he.

38:12
And they shall come, and shall rejoice in the mount of Sion, and shall come to the good things of the Lord, \add even\add* to a land of corn, and wine, and fruits, and cattle, and sheep: and their soul shall be as a fruitful tree; and they shall hunger no more.

38:13
Then shall the virgins rejoice in the assembly of youth, and the old men shall rejoice; and I will turn their mourning into joy, and will make them merry.

38:14
I will expand and cheer with wine the soul of the priests the sons of Levi, and my people shall be satisfied with my good things: thus saith the Lord.

38:15
A voice was heard in Rama, of lamentation, and of weeping, and wailing; Rachel would not cease weeping for her children, because they are not.

38:16
Thus saith the Lord; Let thy voice cease from weeping, and thine eyes from thy tears: for there is a reward for thy works; and they shall return from the land of \add thine\add* enemies.

38:17
\add There shall be\add* an abiding \add home\add* for thy children.

38:18
I have heard the sound of Ephraim lamenting, \add and saying\add*, Thou hast chastened me, and I was chastened; I as a calf was not \add willingly\add* taught: turn thou me, and I shall turn; for thou \add art\add* the Lord my God.

38:19
For after my captivity I repented; and after I knew, I groaned for the day of shame, and shewed thee that I bore reproach from my youth.

38:20
Ephraim is a beloved son, a pleasing child to me: for because my words are in him, I will surely remember him: therefore I made haste \add to help\add* him; I will surely have mercy upon him, saith the Lord.

38:21
Prepare thyself, O Sion; execute vengeance; look to thy ways: return, O virgin of Israel, by the way by which thou wentest, return mourning to thy cities.

38:22
How long, O disgraced daughter, wilt thou turn away? for the Lord has created safety for a new plantation: men shall go about in safety.

38:23
For thus saith the Lord; They shall yet speak this word in the land of Juda, and in the cities thereof, when I shall turn his captivity; blessed be the Lord on his righteous holy mountain!

38:24
And there shall be dwellers in the cities of Juda, and in all his land, together with the husbandman, and \add the shepherd\add* shall go forth with the flock.

38:25
For I have saturated every thirsting soul, and filled every hungry soul.

38:26
Therefore I awaked, and beheld; and my sleep was sweet to me.

38:27
Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the Lord, when I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Juda with the seed of man, and the seed of beast.

38:28
And it shall come to pass, that as I watched over them, to pull down, and to afflict, so will I watch over them, to build, and to plant, saith the Lord.

38:29
In those days they shall certainly not say, The fathers ate a sour grape, and the children's teeth were set on edge.

38:30
But every one shall die in his own sin; and the teeth of him that eats the sour grape shall be set on edge.

38:31
Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Juda:

38:32
not according to the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day when I took hold of their hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt; for they abode not in my covenant, and I disregarded them, saith the Lord.

38:33
For this is my covenant which I will make with the house of Israel; after those days, saith the Lord, I will surely put my laws into their mind, and write them on their hearts; and I will be to them a God, and they shall be to me a people.

38:34
And they shall not at all teach every one his \add fellow\add* citizen, and every one his brother, saying, Know the Lord: for all shall know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them: for I will be merciful to their iniquities, and their sins I will remember no more.

38:35
Though the sky should be raised to a \add greater\add* height, saith the Lord, and though the ground of the earth should be sunk \add lower\add* beneath, yet I will not cast off the family of Israel, saith the Lord, for all that they have done.

38:36
Thus saith the Lord, who gives the sun for a light by day, the moon and the stars for a light by night, and \add makes\add* a roaring in the sea, so that the waves thereof roar; the Lord Almighty is his name:

38:37
if these ordinances cease from before me, saith the Lord, then shall the family of Israel cease to be a nation before me for ever.

38:38
Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, when the city shall be built to the Lord from the tower of Anameel to the gate of the corner.

38:39
And the measurement of it shall proceed in front of them as far as the hills of Gareb, and it shall be compassed with a circular wall of choice stones.

38:40
And all the Asaremoth even to Nachal Kedron, as far as the corner of the horse-gate eastward, shall be holiness to the Lord; and it shall not fail any more, and shall not be destroyed for ever.
