30:1
\sc Concerning Idumea,\sc* thus saith the Lord; There is no longer wisdom in Thæman, counsel has perished from the wise ones, their wisdom is gone,

30:2
their place has been deceived. Dig deep for a dwelling, ye that inhabit Dædam, for he has wrought grievously: I brought trouble upon him in the time at which I visited him.

30:3
For grape-gatherers are come, who shall not leave thee a remnant; as thieves by night, they shall lay their hand upon \add thy possessions\add*.

30:4
For I have stripped Esau, I have uncovered their secret places; they shall have no power to hide themselves, they have perished \add each\add* by the hand of his brother, my neighbour, and it is impossible

30:5
for thy fatherless one to be left to live, but I shall live, and the widows trust in me.

30:6
For thus saith the Lord; They who were not appointed to drink the cup have drunk \add it\add*; and thou shalt by no means be cleared:

30:7
for by myself I have sworn, saith the Lord, that thou shalt be in the midst of her an impassable \add land\add*, and a reproach, and a curse; and all her cities shall be desert for ever.

30:8
I have heard a report from the Lord, and he has sent messengers to the nations, \add saying\add*, Assemble yourselves, and come against her; rise ye up to war.

30:9
I have made thee small among the nations, utterly contemptible among men.

30:10
Thine insolence has risen up against thee, the fierceness of thine heart has burst the holes of the rocks, it has seized upon the strength of a lofty hill; for as an eagle he set his nest on high: thence will I bring thee down.

30:11
And Idumea shall be a desert: every one that passes by shall hiss at it.

30:12
As Sodom was overthrown and Gomorrha and they that sojourned in her, saith the Lord Almighty, no man shall dwell there, nor shall any son of man inhabit there.

30:13
Behold, he shall come up as a lion out of the midst of Jordan to the place of Ætham: for I will speedily drive them from it, and do ye set the young men against her: for who is like me? and who will withstand me? and who \add is\add* this shepherd, who shall confront me?

30:14
Therefore hear ye the counsel of the Lord, which he has framed against Idumea; and his device, which he has devised against the inhabitants of Thæman: surely the least of the sheep shall be swept off; surely their dwelling shall be made desolate for them.

30:15
For at the sound of their fall the earth was scared, and the cry of the sea was not heard.

30:16
Behold, he shall look \add upon her\add* as an eagle, and spread forth \add his\add* wings over her strongholds; and the heart of the mighty men of Idumea shall be in that day as the heart of a woman in her pangs.

30:17
\sc Concerning the sons of Ammon\sc* thus saith the Lord, Are there no sons in Israel? or have they no one to succeed \add them\add*? wherefore has Melchol inherited Galaad, and why shall their people dwell in their cities?

30:18
Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the Lord, when I will cause to be heard in Rabbath a tumult of wars; and they shall become a waste and ruined place, and her altars shall be burned with fire; then shall Israel succeed to his dominion.

30:19
Howl, O Esebon, for Gai has perished; cry, ye daughters of Rabbath, gird yourselves with sackclothes, and lament; for Melchol shall go into banishment, his priests and his princes together.

30:20
Why do ye exult in the plains of the Enakim, thou haughty daughter, that trustest in \add thy\add* treasures, that sayest, Who shall come in to me?

30:21
Behold, I \add will\add* bring terror upon thee, saith the Lord, from all the country round about thee; and ye shall be scattered every one right before him, and there is none to gather you.

30:23
\sc Concerning Kedar the Queen of the Palace, whom Nabuchodonosor King of Babylon smote,\sc* thus saith the Lord; Arise ye, and go up to Kedar, and fill the sons of Kedem.

30:24
They shall take their tents and their sheep, they shall take for themselves their garments, and all their baggage and their camels; and summon ye destruction against them from every side.

30:25
Flee ye, dig very deep for a dwelling-place, ye that dwell in the palace; for the king of Babylon has framed a counsel, and devised a device against you.

30:26
Rise up, and go up against a nation settled \add and\add* dwelling at ease, who have no doors, nor bolts, nor bars, \add who\add* dwell alone.

30:27
And their camels shall be a spoil, and the multitude of their cattle shall be destroyed: and I will scatter them as chaff with every wind, having their hair cut about their foreheads, I will bring on their overthrow from all sides, saith the Lord.

30:28
And the palace shall be a resting-place for ostriches, and desolate for ever: no man shall abide there, and no son of man shall dwell there.

30:29
\sc Concerning Damascus.\sc* Emath is brought to shame, and Arphath: for they have heard an evil report: they are amazed, they are angry, they shall be utterly unable to rest.

30:30
Damascus is utterly weakened, she is put to flight; trembling has seized upon her.

30:31
How has she not left my city, they have loved the village?

30:32
Therefore shall the young men fall in thy streets, and all thy warriors shall fall, saith the Lord.

30:33
And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall devour the streets of the son of Ader.
