32:15
Thus said the Lord God of Israel; Take the cup of this unmixed wine from mine hand, and thou shalt cause all the nations to drink, to whom I send thee.

32:16
And they shall drink, and vomit, and be mad, because of the sword which I send among them.

32:17
So I took the cup out of the Lord's hand, and caused the nations to whom the Lord sent me to drink:

32:18
Jerusalem, and the cities of Juda, and the kings of Juda, and his princes, to make them a desert place, a desolation, and a hissing;

32:19
and Pharao king of Egypt, and his servants, and his nobles, and all his people;

32:20
and all the mingled \add people\add*, and all the kings of the Philistines, and Ascalon, and Gaza, and Accaron, and the remnant of Azotus,

32:21
and Idumea, and the land of Moab, and the children of Ammon,

32:22
and the kings of Tyre, and the kings of Sidon, and the kings in the \add country\add* beyond the sea,

32:23
and Dædan, and Thæman, and Ros, and every one that is shaved round about the face,

32:24
and all the mingled \add people\add* lodging in the wilderness,

32:25
and all the kings of Ælam, and all the kings of the Persians,

32:26
and all the kings from the north, the far and the near, each one with his brother, and all the kingdoms which are on the face of the earth.

32:27
And thou shalt say to them, Thus said the Lord Almighty; Drink ye, be ye drunken; and ye shall vomit, and shall fall, and shall in nowise rise, because of the sword which I send among you.

32:28
And it shall come to pass, when they refuse to take the cup out of thine hand, to drink it, that thou shalt say, Thus said the Lord; Ye shall surely drink.

32:29
For I am beginning to afflict the city whereon my name is called, and ye shall by no means be held guiltless: for I am calling a sword upon all that dwell upon the earth.

32:30
And thou shalt prophesy against them these words, and shalt say, The Lord shall speak from on high, from his sanctuary he will utter his voice; he will pronounce a declaration on his place; and these shall answer like men gathering grapes: and destruction is coming on them that dwell on the earth,

32:31
\add even\add* upon \add the extreme\add* part of the earth; for the Lord \add has\add* a controversy with the nations, he is pleading with all flesh, and the ungodly are given to the sword, saith the Lord.

32:32
Thus said the Lord; Behold, evils are proceeding from nation to nation, and a great whirlwind goes forth from the end of the earth.

32:33
And the slain of the Lord shall be in the day of the Lord from \add one\add* end of the earth even to the \add other\add* end of the earth: they shall not be buried; they shall be as dung on the face of the earth.

32:34
Howl, ye shepherds, and cry; and lament, ye rams of the flock: for your days have been completed for slaughter, and ye shall fall as the choice rams.

32:35
And flight shall perish from the shepherds, and safety from the rams of the flock.

32:36
A voice of the crying of the shepherds, and a moaning of the sheep and the rams: for the Lord has destroyed their pastures.

32:37
And the peaceable abodes that remain shall be destroyed before the fierceness of my anger.

32:38
He has forsaken his lair, as a lion: for their land is become desolate before the great sword.
