10:1
Hear ye the word of the Lord, which he has spoken to you, O house of Israel.

10:2
Thus saith the Lord, Learn ye not the ways of the heathen, and be not alarmed at the signs of the sky; for they are alarmed at them, \add falling\add* on their faces.

10:3
For the customs of the nations are vain; it is a tree cut out of the forest, the work of the carpenter, or a molten image.

10:4
\add They are\add* beautified with silver and gold, they fix them with hammers and nails;

10:5
they will set them up that they may not move; it is wrought silver, they will not walk,

10:9
a They must certainly be borne, for they cannot ride \add of themselves\add*. Fear them not; for they cannot do any evil, and there is no good in them.

10:11
Thus shall ye say to them, Let the gods which have not made heaven and earth perish from off the earth, and from under this sky.

10:12
It is the Lord that made the earth by his strength, who set up the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding stretched out the sky,

10:13
and set abundance of waters in the sky, and brought up clouds from the ends of the earth; he made lightnings for the rain, and brought forth light out of his treasures.

10:14
Every man is deprived of knowledge, every goldsmith is confounded because of his graven images; for he has cast false gods, there is no breath in them.

10:15
They are vain works, wrought in mockery; in the time of their visitation they shall perish.

10:16
Such is not the portion of Jacob; for he that formed all things, he is his inheritance; the Lord is his name.

10:17
He has gathered thy substance from without that lodged in choice \add vessels\add*.

10:18
For thus saith the Lord, Behold, I \add will\add* overthrow the inhabitants of this land with affliction, that thy plague may be discovered.

10:19
Alas for thy ruin! thy plague is grievous: and I said, Surely this is thy wound, and it has overtaken thee.

10:20
Thy tabernacle is in a ruinous state, it has perished; and all thy curtains have been torn asunder: my children and my cattle are no more: there is no more any place for my tabernacle, \add nor\add* place for my curtains.

10:21
For the shepherds have become foolish, and have not sought the Lord; therefore the whole pasture has failed, and \add the sheep\add* have been scattered.

10:22
Behold, there comes a sound of a noise, and a great earthquake from the land of the north, to make the cities of Juda a desolation, and a resting-place for ostriches.

10:23
I know, O Lord, that man's way is not his own; neither shall a man go, and direct his going.

10:24
Chasten us, O Lord, but with judgment; and not in wrath, lest thou make us few.

10:25
Pour out thy wrath upon the nations that have not known thee, and upon the families that have not called upon thy name: for they have devoured Jacob, and consumed him, and have made his pasture desolate.
