2:1
And I lifted up mine eyes and looked, and behold four horns.

2:2
And I said to the angel that spoke with me, What are these things, \add my\add* lord? And he said to me, These are the horns that have scattered Juda, and Israel, and Jerusalem.

2:3
And the Lord shewed me four artificers.

2:4
And I said, What are these coming to do? And he said, These are the horns that scattered Juda, and they broke Israel in pieces, and none of them lifted up his head: and these are come forth to sharpen them for their hands, \add even\add* the four horns, the nations that lifted up the horn against the land of the Lord to scatter it.

2:5
And I lifted up mine eyes, and looked, and behold a man, and in his hand a measuring line.

2:6
And I said to him, Whither goest thou? And he said to me, To measure Jerusalem, to see what is the breadth of it, and what is the length of it.

2:7
And, behold, the angel that spoke with me stood \add by\add*, and another angel went forth to meet him,

2:8
and spoke to him, saying, Run and speak to that young man, saying, Jerusalem shall be fully inhabited by reason of the abundance of men and cattle in the midst of her.

2:9
And I will be to her, saith the Lord, a wall of fire round about, and I will be for a glory in the midst of her.

2:10
Ho, ho, flee from the land of the north, saith the Lord: for I will gather you from the four winds of heaven, saith the Lord,

2:11
\add even\add* to Sion: deliver yourselves, ye that dwell \add with\add* the daughter of Babylon.

2:12
For thus saith the Lord Almighty; After the glory has he sent me to the nations that spoiled you: for he that touches you is as one that touches the apple of his eye.

2:13
For, behold, I bring my hand upon them, and they shall be a spoil to them that serve them: and ye shall know that the Lord Almighty has sent me.

2:14
Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of Sion: for, behold, I come, and will dwell in the midst of thee, saith the Lord.

2:15
And many nations shall flee for refuge to the Lord in that day, and they shall be for a people to him, and they shall dwell in the midst of thee: and thou shalt know that the Lord Almighty has sent me to thee.

2:16
And the Lord shall inherit Juda his portion in the holy \add land\add*, and he will yet choose Jerusalem.

2:17
Let all flesh fear before the Lord: for he has risen up from his holy clouds.
