30:1
For the end, a Psalm of David, \add an utterance\add* of \f + \fr 30:1 \fqa Gr. \ft ecstasy. See title.\f*extreme fear.

30:2
O Lord, I have hoped in thee; let me never be ashamed: deliver me in thy righteousness and rescue me.

30:3
Incline thine ear to me; make haste to rescue me: be thou to me for a protecting God, and for a house of refuge to save me.

30:4
For thou art my strength and my refuge; and thou shalt guide me for thy name's sake, and maintain me.

30:5
Thou shalt bring me out of the snare which they have hidden for me; for thou, O Lord, art my defender.

30:6
Into thine hands I will commit my spirit: thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of truth.

30:7
Thou hast hated them that idly persist in vanities: but I have hoped in the Lord.

30:8
I will exult and be glad in thy mercy: for thou hast looked upon mine affliction; thou hast saved my soul from distresses.

30:9
And thou hast not shut me up into the hands of the enemy: thou hast set my feet in a wide place.

30:10
Pity me, O Lord, for I am afflicted: my eye is troubled with indignation, my soul and my belly.

30:11
For my life is spent with grief, and my years with groanings: my strength has been weakened through poverty, and my bones are troubled.

30:12
I became a reproach among all mine enemies, but exceedingly so to my neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintance: they that saw me without fled from me.

30:13
I have been forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am become as a broken vessel.

30:14
For I heard the slander of many that dwelt round about: when they were gathered together against me, they took counsel to take my life.

30:15
But I hoped in thee, O Lord: I said, Thou art my God.

30:16
My lots are in thy hands: deliver me from the hand of mine enemies,

30:17
and from them that persecute me. Make thy face to shine upon thy servant: save me in thy mercy.

30:18
O Lord, let me not be ashamed, for I have called upon thee: let the ungodly be ashamed, and brought down to Hades.

30:19
Let the deceitful lips become dumb, which speak iniquity against the righteous with pride and scorn.

30:20
How abundant is the multitude of thy goodness, O Lord, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee! thou hast wrought \add it\add* out for them that hope on thee, in the presence of the sons of men.

30:21
Thou wilt hide them in the secret of thy presence from the vexation of man: thou wilt screen them in a tabernacle from the contradiction of tongues.

30:22
Blessed be the Lord: for he has magnified his mercy in a fortified city.

30:23
But I said in my extreme fear, I am cast out from the sight of thine eyes: therefore thou didst hearken, O Lord, to the voice of my supplication when I cried to thee.

30:24
Love the Lord, all ye his saints: for the Lord seeks for truth, and renders \add a reward\add* to them that deal very proudly.

30:25
Be of good courage, and let your heart be strengthened, all ye that hope in the Lord.
