6:1
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,

6:2
Charge Aaron and his sons, saying, This \add is\add* the law of whole-burnt-offering; this is the whole-burnt-offering in its burning on the altar all the night till the morning; and the fire of the altar shall burn on it, it shall not be put out.

6:3
And the priest shall put on the linen tunic, and he shall put the linen drawers on his body; and shall take away that which has been thoroughly burnt, which the fire shall have consumed, even the whole-burnt-offering from the altar, and he shall put it near the altar.

6:4
And he shall put off his robe, and put on another robe, and he shall take forth the offering that has been burnt without the camp into a clean place.

6:5
And the fire on the altar shall be kept burning on it, and shall not be extinguished; and the priest shall burn on it wood every morning, and shall heap on it the whole-burnt-offering, and shall lay on it the fat of the peace-offering.

6:6
And the fire shall always burn on the altar; it shall not be extinguished.

6:7
This is the law of the sacrifice, which the sons of Aaron shall bring near before the Lord, before the altar.

6:8
And he shall take from it a handful of the fine flour of the sacrifice with its oil, and with all its frankincense, which are upon the sacrifice; and he shall offer up on the altar a burnt-offering as a sweet-smelling savour, a memorial of it to the Lord.

6:9
And Aaron and his sons shall eat that which is left of it: it shall be eaten without leaven in a holy place, they shall eat it in the court of the tabernacle of witness.

6:10
It shall not be baked with leaven. I have given it as a portion to them of the burnt-offerings of the Lord: it is most holy, as the offering for sin, and as the offering for trespass.

6:11
Every male of the priests shall eat it: it is a perpetual ordinance throughout your generations of the burnt-offerings of the Lord; whosoever shall touch them shall be hallowed.

6:12
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,

6:13
This is the gift of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall offer to the Lord in the day in which thou shalt anoint him; the tenth of an ephah of fine flour for a sacrifice continually, the half of it in the morning, and the half of it in the evening.

6:14
It shall be made with oil in a frying-pan; he shall offer it kneaded \add and\add* in rolls, an offering of fragments, an offering of a sweet savour unto the Lord.

6:15
The anointed priest who is in his place, \add one\add* of his sons, shall offer it: it is a perpetual statute, it shall all be consumed.

6:16
And every sacrifice of a priest shall be thoroughly burnt, and shall not be eaten.

6:17
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,

6:18
Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin-offering;—in the place where they slay the whole-burnt-offering, they shall slay the sin-offerings before the Lord: they are most holy.

6:19
The priest that offers it shall eat it: in a holy place it shall be eaten, in the court of the tabernacle of witness.

6:20
Every one that touches the flesh of it shall be holy, and on whosesoever garment any of its blood shall have been sprinkled, whosoever shall have it sprinkled, shall be washed in the holy place.

6:21
And the earthen vessel, in whichsoever it shall have been sodden, shall be broken; and if it shall have been sodden in a brazen vessel, he shall scour it and wash it with water.

6:22
Every male among the priests shall eat it: it is most holy to the Lord.

6:23
And no offerings for sin, of whose blood there shall be brought any into the tabernacle of witness to make atonement in the holy place, shall be eaten: they shall be burned with fire.
