24:1
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,

24:2
Charge the children of Israel, and let them take for thee pure olive oil beaten for the light, to burn a lamp continually,

24:3
outside the veil in the tabernacle of witness; and Aaron and his sons shall burn it from evening until morning before the Lord continually, a perpetual statute throughout your generations.

24:4
Ye shall burn the lamps on the pure lamp-stand before the Lord till the morrow.

24:5
And ye shall take fine flour, and make of it twelve loaves; each loaf shall be of two tenth parts.

24:6
And ye shall put them \add in\add* two rows, each row \add containing\add* six loaves, on the pure table before the Lord.

24:7
And ye shall put on \add each\add* row pure frankincense and salt; and \add these things\add* shall be for loaves for a memorial, set forth before the Lord.

24:8
On the sabbath-day they shall be set forth before the Lord continually before the children of Israel, for an everlasting covenant.

24:9
And they shall be for Aaron and his sons, and they shall eat them in the holy place: for this is their most holy portion of the offerings made to the Lord, a perpetual statute.

24:10
And there went forth a son of an Israelitish woman, and he was son of an Egyptian man among the sons of Israel; and they fought in the camp, the son of the Israelitish woman, and a man who was an Israelite.

24:11
And the son of the Israelitish woman named THE NAME and cursed; and they brought him to Moses: and his mother's name was Salomith, daughter of Dabri of the tribe of Dan.

24:12
And they put him in ward, to judge him by the command of the Lord.

24:13
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,

24:14
Bring forth him that cursed outside the camp, and all who heard shall lay their hands upon his head, and all the congregation shall stone him.

24:15
And speak to the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, Whosoever shall curse God shall bear his sin.

24:16
And he that names the name of the Lord, let him die the death: let all the congregation of Israel stone him with stones; whether he be a stranger or a native, let him die for naming the name of the Lord.

24:17
And whosoever shall smite a man and he die, let him die the death.

24:18
And whosoever shall smite a beast, and it shall die, let him render life for life.

24:19
And whosoever shall inflict a blemish on his neighbour, as he has done to him, so shall it be done to himself in return;

24:20
bruise for bruise, eye for eye, tooth for tooth: as any one may inflict a blemish on a man, so shall it be rendered to him.

24:21
Whosoever shall smite a man, and he shall die, let him die the death.

24:22
There shall be one judgment for the stranger and the native, for I \add am\add* the Lord your God.

24:23
And Moses spoke to the children of Israel, and they brought him that had cursed out of the camp, and stoned him with stones: and the children of Israel did as the Lord commanded Moses.
