26:1
I \add am\add* the Lord your God: ye shall not make to yourselves gods made with hands, or graven; neither shall ye rear up a pillar for yourselves, neither shall ye set up a stone \add for\add* an object in your land to worship it: I am the Lord your God.

26:2
Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuaries: I am the Lord.

26:3
If ye will walk in my ordinances, and keep my commandments, and do them,

26:4
then will I give you the rain in its season, and the land shall produce its fruits, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit.

26:5
And your threshing time shall overtake the vintage, and your vintage shall overtake your seed time; and ye shall eat your bread to the full; and ye shall dwell safely upon your land, and war shall not go through your land.

26:6
And I will give peace in your land, and ye shall sleep, and none \add shall\add* make you afraid; and I will destroy the evil beasts out of your land,

26:7
and ye shall pursue your enemies, and they shall fall before you with slaughter.

26:8
And five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of you shall chase tens of thousands; and your enemies shall fall before you by the sword.

26:9
And I will look upon you, and increase you, and multiply you, and establish my covenant with you.

26:10
And ye shall eat that which is old and very old, and bring forth the old to make way for the new.

26:11
And I will set my tabernacle among you, and my soul shall not abhor you;

26:12
and I will walk among you, and be your God, and ye shall be my people.

26:13
I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, where ye were slaves; and I broke the band of your yoke, and brought you forth openly.

26:14
But if ye will not hearken to me, nor obey these my ordinances,

26:15
but disobey them, and your soul should loathe my judgments, so that ye should not keep all my commands, so as to break my covenant,

26:16
then will I do thus to you: I will even bring upon you perplexity and the itch, and the fever that causes your eyes to waste away, and \add disease\add* that consumes your life; and ye shall sow your seeds in vain, and your enemies shall eat them.

26:17
And I will set my face against you, and ye shall fall before your enemies, and they that hate you shall pursue you; and ye shall flee, no one pursuing you.

26:18
And if ye still refuse to hearken to me, then will I chasten you yet more even seven times for your sins.

26:19
And I will break down the haughtiness of your pride; and I will make your heaven iron, and your earth as it were brass.

26:20
And your strength shall be in vain; and your land shall not yield its seed, and the tree of your field shall not yield its fruit.

26:21
And if after this ye should walk perversely, and not be willing to obey me, I will further bring upon you seven plagues according to your sins.

26:22
And I will send upon you the wild beasts of the land, and they shall devour you, and shall consume your cattle: and I will make you few in number, and your ways shall be desolate.

26:23
And if hereupon ye are not corrected, but walk perversely towards me,

26:24
I also will walk with you with a perverse spirit, and I also will smite you seven times for your sins.

26:25
And I will bring upon you a sword avenging the cause of \add my\add* covenant, and ye shall flee for refuge to your cities; and I will send out death against you, and ye shall be delivered into the hands of your enemies.

26:26
When I afflict you with famine of bread, then ten women shall bake your loaves in one oven, and they shall render your loaves by weight; and ye shall eat, and not be satisfied.

26:27
And if hereupon ye will not obey me, but walk perversely towards me,

26:28
then will I walk with you with a froward mind, and I will chasten you sevenfold according to your sins.

26:29
And ye shall eat the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of your daughters shall ye eat.

26:30
And I will render your pillars desolate, and will utterly destroy your wooden \add images\add* made with hands; and I will lay your carcases on the carcases of your idols, and my soul shall loathe you.

26:31
And I will lay your cities waste, and I will make your sanctuaries desolate, and I will not smell the savour of your sacrifices.

26:32
And I will lay your land desolate, and your enemies who dwell in it shall wonder at it.

26:33
And I will scatter you among the nations, and the sword shall come upon you and consume you; and your land shall be desolate, and your cities shall be desolate.

26:34
Then the land shall enjoy its sabbaths all the days of its desolation.

26:35
And ye shall be in the land of your enemies; then the land shall keep its sabbaths, and the land shall enjoy its sabbaths all the days of its desolation: it shall keep sabbaths which it kept not among your sabbaths, when ye dwelt in it.

26:36
And to those who are left of you I will bring bondage into their heart in the land of their enemies; and the sound of a shaken leaf shall chase them, and they shall flee as fleeing from war, and shall fall when none pursues them.

26:37
And brother shall disregard brother as in war, when none pursues; and ye shall not be able to withstand your enemies.

26:38
And ye shall perish among the Gentiles, and the land of your enemies shall devour you.

26:39
And those who are left of you shall perish, because of their sins, and because of the sins of their fathers: in the land of their enemies shall they consume away.

26:40
And they shall confess their sins, and the sins of their fathers, that they have transgressed and neglected me, and that they have walked perversely before me,

26:41
and I walked with them with a perverse mind; and I will destroy them in the land of their enemies: then shall their uncircumcised heart be ashamed, and then shall they acquiesce in \add the punishment of\add* their sins.

26:42
And I will remember the covenant of Jacob, and the covenant of Isaac, and the covenant of Abraam will I remember.

26:43
And I will remember the land, and the land shall be left of them; then the land shall enjoy her sabbaths, when it is deserted through them: and they shall accept \add the punishment of\add* their iniquities, because they neglected my judgments, and in their soul loathed my ordinances.

26:44
And yet not even thus, while they were in the land of their enemies, did I overlook them, nor did I loathe them so as to consume them, to break my covenant made with them; for I am the Lord their God.

26:45
And I will remember their former covenant, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage before the nations, to be their God; I am the Lord.

26:46
These are my judgments and my ordinances, and the law which the Lord gave between himself and the children of Israel, in the mount Sina, by the hand of Moses.
