11:1
And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,

11:2
Speak ye to the sons of Israel, saying, These are the beasts which ye shall eat of all beasts that are upon the earth.

11:3
Every beast parting the hoof and making divisions of two claws, and chewing the cud among beasts, these ye shall eat.

11:4
But of these ye shall not eat, of those that chew the cud, and of those that part the hoofs, and divide claws; the camel, because it chews the cud, but does not divide the hoof, this is unclean to you.

11:5
And the rabbit, because it chews the cud, but does not divide the hoof, this is unclean to you.

11:6
And the hare, because it does not chew the cud, and does not divide the hoof, this is unclean to you.

11:7
And the swine, because this \add animal\add* divides the hoof, and makes claws of the hoof, and it does not chew the cud, is unclean to you.

11:8
Ye shall not eat of their flesh, and ye shall not touch their carcases; these are unclean to you.

11:9
And these \add are\add* what ye shall eat of all that are in the waters: all things that have fins and scales in the waters, and in the seas, and in the brooks, these ye shall eat.

11:10
And all things which have not fins or scales in the water, or in the seas, and in the brooks, of all which the waters produce, and of every soul living in the water, are an abomination; and they shall be abominations to you.

11:11
Ye shall not eat of their flesh, and ye shall abhor their carcases.

11:12
And all things that have not fins or scales of those that are in the waters, these are an abomination to you.

11:13
And these are the things which ye shall abhor of birds, and they shall not be eaten, they are an abomination: the eagle and the ossifrage, and the sea-eagle.

11:14
And the vulture, and the kite, and the like to it;

11:15
and the sparrow, and the owl, and the sea-mew, and the like to it:

11:16
and every raven, and the birds like it, and the hawk and his like,

11:17
and the night-raven and the cormorant and the stork,

11:18
and the red-bill, and pelican, and swan,

11:19
and the heron, and the lapwing, and the like to it, and the hoopoe and the bat.

11:20
And all winged creatures that creep, which go upon four feet, are abominations to you.

11:21
But these ye shall eat of the creeping winged animals, which go upon four feet, which have legs above their feet, to leap with on the earth.

11:22
And these of them ye shall eat: the caterpillar and his like, and the attacus and his like, and the cantharus and his like, and the locust and his like.

11:23
Every creeping thing from among the birds, which has four feet, is an abomination to you.

11:24
And by these ye shall be defiled; every one that touches their carcases shall be unclean till the evening.

11:25
And every one that takes of their dead bodies shall wash his garments, and shall be unclean till the evening.

11:26
And whichever among the beasts divides the hoof and makes claws, and does not chew the cud, shall be unclean to you; every one that touches their dead bodies shall be unclean till evening.

11:27
And every one among all the wild beasts that moves upon its fore feet, which goes on all four, is unclean to you; every one that touches their dead bodies shall be unclean till evening.

11:28
And he that takes of their dead bodies shall wash his garments, and shall be unclean till evening: these are unclean to you.

11:29
And these \add are\add* unclean to you of reptiles upon the earth, the weasel, and the mouse, and the lizard,

11:30
the ferret, and the chameleon, and the evet, and the newt, and the mole.

11:31
These are unclean to you of all the reptiles which are on the earth; every one who touches their carcases shall be unclean till evening.

11:32
And on whatsoever one of their dead bodies shall fall it shall be unclean; whatever wooden vessel, or garment, or skin, or sack it may be, every vessel in which work should be done, shall be dipped in water, and shall be unclean till evening; and \add then\add* it shall be clean.

11:33
And every earthen vessel into which one of these things shall fall, whatsoever is inside it, shall be unclean, and it shall be broken.

11:34
And all food that is eaten, on which water shall come \add from such a vessel\add*, shall be unclean; and every beverage which is drunk in any \add such\add* vessel, shall be unclean.

11:35
And every thing on which there shall fall of their dead bodies shall be unclean; ovens and stands for jars shall be broken down: these are unclean, and they shall be unclean to you.

11:36
Only \add if the water be\add* of fountains of water, or a pool, or confluence of water, it shall be clean; but he that touches their carcases shall be unclean.

11:37
And if one of their carcases should fall upon any sowing seed which shall be sown, it shall be clean.

11:38
But if water be poured on any seed, and one of their dead bodies fall upon it, it is unclean to you.

11:39
And if one of the cattle die, which it is lawful for you to eat, he that touches their carcases shall be unclean till evening.

11:40
And he that eats of their carcases shall wash his garments, and be unclean till evening; and he that carries any of their carcases shall wash his garments, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean till evening.

11:41
And every reptile that creeps on the earth, this shall be an abomination to you; it shall not be eaten.

11:42
And every \add animal\add* that creeps on its belly, and every one that goes on four \add feet\add* continually, which abounds with feet among all the reptiles creeping upon the earth—ye shall not eat it, for it is an abomination to you.

11:43
And ye shall not defile your souls with any of the reptiles that creep upon the earth, and ye shall not be polluted with them, and ye shall not be unclean by them.

11:44
For I am the Lord your God; and ye shall be sanctified, and ye shall be holy, because I the Lord your God am holy; and ye shall not defile your souls with any of the reptiles creeping upon the earth.

11:45
For I am the Lord who brought you up out of the land of Egypt to be your God; and ye shall be holy, for I the Lord am holy.

11:46
This is the law concerning beasts and birds and every living creature moving in the water, and every living creature creeping on the earth;

11:47
to distinguish between the unclean and the clean; and between those that bring forth alive, such as should be eaten, and those that bring forth alive, such as should not be eaten.
