3:1
To all things there is a time, and a season for every matter under heaven.

3:2
A time of birth, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up what has been planted;

3:3
a time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to pull down, and a time to build up;

3:4
a time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to lament, and a time to dance;

3:5
a time to throw stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to abstain from embracing;

3:6
a time to seek, and a time to lose; a time to keep, and a time to cast away;

3:7
a time to rend, and a time to sew; a time to be silent, and a time to speak;

3:8
a time to love, and a time to hate; a time of war, and a time of peace.

3:9
What advantage \add has\add* he that works in those things wherein he labours?

3:10
I have seen all the trouble, which God has given to the sons of men to be troubled with.

3:11
All the things which he has made are beautiful in his time: he has also set the whole world in their heart, that man might not find out the work which God has wrought from the beginning even to the end.

3:12
I know that there is no good in them, except \add for a man\add* to rejoice, and to do good in his life.

3:13
Also \add in the case of\add* every man who shall eat and drink, and see good in all his labour, \add this\add* is a gift of God.

3:14
I know that whatsoever things God has done, they shall be for ever: it is impossible to add to it, and it is impossible to take away from it: and God has done \add it\add*, that \add men\add* may fear before him.

3:15
That which has been is now; and whatever things \add are appointed\add* to be have already been; and God will seek out that which is past.

3:16
And moreover I saw under the sun the place of judgment, there was the ungodly one; and the place of righteousness, there was the godly one.

3:17
And I said in my heart, God will judge the righteous and the ungodly: for there is a time there for every action and for every work.

3:18
I said in my heart, concerning the speech of the sons of man, God will judge them, and that to shew that they are beasts.

3:19
Also to them is the event of the sons of man, and the event of the brute; one event befalls them: as is the death of the one, so also the death of the other; and there is one breath to all: and what has the man more than the brute? nothing; for all is vanity.

3:20
All \add go\add* to one place; all were formed of the dust, and all will return to dust.

3:21
And who has seen the spirit of the sons of man, whether it goes upward? and the spirit of the beast, whether it goes downward to the earth?

3:22
And I saw that there was no good, but that wherein a man shall rejoice in his works, for it is his portion, for who shall bring him to see any thing of that which shall be after him?
