10:1
Pestilent flies will corrupt a preparation of sweet ointment: \add and\add* a little wisdom is more precious than great glory of folly.

10:2
A wise man's heart is at his right hand; but a fool's heart at his left.

10:3
Yea, and whenever a fool walks by the way, his heart will fail him, and all that he thinks of is folly.

10:4
If the spirit of the ruler rise up against thee, leave not thy place; for soothing will put an end to great offences.

10:5
There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, wherein an error has proceeded from the ruler.

10:6
The fool has been set in very high places, while rich men would sit in a low one.

10:7
I have seen servants upon horses, and princes walking as servants on the earth.

10:8
He that digs a pit shall fall into it; and him that breaks down a hedge a serpent shall bite.

10:9
He that removes stones shall be troubled thereby; he that cleaves wood shall be endangered thereby.

10:10
If the axe-head should fall off, then the man troubles his countenance, and he must put forth more strength: and \add in that case\add* skill is of no advantage to a man.

10:11
If a serpent bite when there is no \add charmer's\add* whisper, then there is no advantage to the charmer.

10:12
The words of a wise mouth are gracious: but the lips of a fool will swallow him up.

10:13
The beginning of the words of his mouth is folly: and the end of his talk mischievous madness.

10:14
A fool moreover multiplies words: man knows not what has been, nor what will be: who shall tell him what will come after him?

10:15
The labour of fools will afflict them, \add as that of one\add* who knows not to go to the city.

10:16
Woe to thee, O city, whose king is young, and thy princes eat in the morning!

10:17
Blessed art thou, O land, whose king is a son of nobles, and whose princes shall eat seasonably, for strength, and shall not be ashamed.

10:18
By slothful neglect a building will be brought low: and by idleness of the hands the house will fall to pieces.

10:19
Men prepare bread for laughter, and wine and oil that the living should rejoice: but to money all things will humbly yield obedience.

10:20
Even in thy conscience, curse not the king; and curse not the rich in thy bedchamber: for a bird of the air shall carry thy voice, and that which has wings shall report thy speech.
