16:1
Now it came to pass, when Sanaballat, and Tobias, and Gesam the Arabian, and the rest of our enemies, heard that I had built the wall, and \add that\add* there was no opening left therein; (\add but\add* hitherto I had not set up the doors on the gates;)

16:2
that Sanaballat and Gesam sent to me, saying, Come and let us meet together in the villages in the plain of Ono. But they \add were\add* plotting to do me mischief.

16:3
So I sent messengers to them, saying, I am doing a great work, and I shall not be able to come down, lest the work should cease: as soon as I shall have finished it, I will come down to you.

16:4
And they sent to me \add again\add* to this effect; and I sent them \add word\add* accordingly.

16:5
Then Sanaballat sent his servant to me with an open letter in his hand.

16:6
And in it was written, It has been reported among the Gentiles that thou and the Jews are planning to revolt: therefore thou art building the wall, and thou wilt be a king to them.

16:7
And moreover thou hast appointed prophets to thyself, that thou mightest dwell in Jerusalem as a king over Juda: and now these words will be reported to the king. Now then, come, let us take counsel together.

16:8
And I sent to him, saying, It has not happened according to these words, \add even\add* as thou sayest, for thou framest them falsely out of thy heart.

16:9
For all were trying to alarm us, saying, Their hands shall be weakened from this work, and it shall not be done. Now therefore I have strengthened my hands.

16:10
And I came into the house of Semei the son of Dalaia the son of Metabeel, and he was shut up; and he said, Let us assemble together in the house of God, in the midst of it, and let us shut the doors of it; for they are coming by night to slay thee.

16:11
And I said, Who is the man that shall enter into the house, that he may live?

16:12
And I observed, and, behold, God had not sent him, for the prophecy was a fable \add devised\add* against me:

16:13
and Tobias and Sanaballat had hired against me a multitude, that I might be frightened, and do this, and sin, and become to them an ill name, that they might reproach me.

16:14
Remember, O God, Tobias and Sanaballat, according to these their deeds, and the prophetess Noadia, and the rest of the prophets who tried to alarm me.

16:15
So the wall was finished on the twenty-fifth day of the \add month\add* Elul, in fifty-two days.

16:16
And it came to pass, when all our enemies heard \add of it\add*, that all the nations round about us feared, and great alarm fell upon them, and they knew that it was of our God that this work should be finished.

16:17
And in those days letters came to Tobias from many nobles of Juda, and those of Tobias came to them.

16:18
For many in Juda were bound to him by oath, because he was son-in-law of Sechenias the son of Herae; and Jonan his son had taken the daughter of Mesulam the son of Barachia to wife.

16:19
And they reported his words to me, and carried out my words to him: and Tobias sent letters to terrify me.
