13:1
Then Eliasub the high priest, and his brethren the priests, rose up, and built the sheep-gate; they sanctified it, and set up the doors of it; even to the tower of the hundred they sanctified \add it\add*, to the tower of Anameel.

13:2
And \add they builded\add* by the side of the men of Jericho, and by the side of the sons of Zacchur, the son of Amari.

13:3
And the sons of Asana built the fish-gate; they roofed it, and covered in its doors, and bolts, and bars.

13:4
And next to them \add the order\add* reached to Ramoth the son of Uria, the son of Accos, and next to them Mosollam son of Barachias the son of Mazebel took \add his\add* place: and next to them Sadoc the son of Baana took \add his\add* place.

13:5
And next to them the Thecoim took \add their\add* place; but the Adorim applied not their neck to their service.

13:6
a And next to them repaired Maltias the Gabaonite, and Evaron the Meronothite, the men of Gabaon and Maspha, to the throne of the governor on this side the river.

13:8
And next to him Oziel the son of Arachias of the smiths, carried on the repairs: and next to them Ananias the son of one of the apothecaries repaired, and they finished Jerusalem to the broad wall.

13:9
And next to them repaired Raphæa the son of Sur, the ruler of half the district round about Jerusalem.

13:10
And next to them repaired Jedaia the son of Eromaph, and \add that\add* in front of his house: and next to him repaired Attuth son of Asabania.

13:11
And next \add to him\add* repaired Melchias son of Heram, and Asub son of Phaat Moab, even to the tower of the furnaces.

13:12
And next to him repaired Sallum the son of Alloes, the ruler of half the district round about Jerusalem, he and his daughters.

13:13
Anun and the inhabitants of Zano repaired the gate of the valley: they built it, and set up its doors, and its bolts, and its bars, and a thousand cubits of the wall as far as the dung-gate.

13:14
And Melchia the son of Rechab, the ruler of the district round about Bethaccharim, repaired the dung-gate, he and his sons; and they covered it, and set up its doors, and its bolts, and its bars.

13:15
But Solomon the son of Choleze repaired the gate of the fountain, the ruler of part of Maspha; he built it, and covered it, and set up its doors and its bars, and the wall of the pool of the skins by the meadow of the king, and as far as the steps that lead down from the city of David.

13:16
After him repaired Neemias son of Azabuch, ruler of half the district round about Bethsur, as far as the garden of David's sepulchre, and as far as the artificial pool, and as far as the house of the mighty men.

13:17
After him repaired the Levites, \add even\add* Raum the son of Bani: next to him repaired Asabia, ruler of half the district round about Keila, in his district.

13:18
And after him repaired his brethren, Benei son of Enadad, ruler of half the district round about Keila.

13:19
And next to him repaired Azur the son of Joshua, ruler of Masphai, another portion of the tower of ascent, where it meets the corner.

13:20
After him repaired Baruch the son of Zabu, a second portion, from the corner as far as the door of the house of Eliasub the high priest.

13:21
After him repaired Meramoth the son of Uria the son of Accos, a second part from the door of the house of Eliasub to the end of the house of Eliasub.

13:22
And after him repaired the priests, the men of Ecchechar.

13:23
And after him repaired Benjamin and Asub over against their house: and after him repaired Azarias son of Maasias the son of Ananias, \add the parts\add* near to his house.

13:24
After him repaired Bani the son of Adad, another portion from the house of Azaria as far as the corner and to the turning,

13:25
of Phalach the son of Uzai, opposite the corner, and \add where is\add* also the tower that projects from the king's house, even the upper one of the prison-house: and after him \add repaired\add* Phadæa the son of Phoros.

13:26
And the Nathinim dwelt in Ophal, as far as the garden of the water-gate eastward, and \add there is\add* the projecting tower.

13:27
And after them the Thecoim repaired, another portion opposite the great projecting tower, even as far as the wall of Ophla.

13:28
The priests repaired above the horse-gate, \add every\add* man over against his own house.

13:29
And after him Sadduc the son of Emmer repaired opposite his own house: and after him repaired Samæa son of Sechenia, guard of the east-gate.

13:30
After him repaired Anania son of Selemia, and Anom, the sixth son of Seleph, another portion: after him Mesulam the son of Barachia repaired over against his treasury.

13:31
After him repaired Melchia the son of Sarephi as far as the house of the Nathinim, and the chapmen over against the gate of Maphecad, and as far as the steps of the corner.

13:32
And between \add that and\add* the sheep-gate the smiths and chapmen repaired.

13:33
Now it came to pass, when Sanaballat heard that we were building the wall, that it was grievous to him, and he was very angry, and railed against the Jews.

13:34
And he said before his brethren (that \add is\add* the army of the Samaritans) \add Is it true\add* that these Jews are building their city? do they indeed offer sacrifices? will they prevail? and will they this day restore the stones, after they have been burnt and made a heap of rubbish?

13:35
And Tobias the Ammanite came near to him, and said to them, Do they sacrifice or eat in their place? shall not a fox go up and pull down their wall of stones?

13:36
Hear, O our God, for we have become a scorn; and return thou their reproach upon their head, and make them a scorn in a land of captivity,

13:37
and do not cover \add their\add* iniquity.
