4:1
Behold, thou art fair, my companion; behold, thou art fair; thine eyes are doves, beside thy veil: thy hair is as flocks of goats, that have appeared from Galaad.

4:2
Thy teeth are as flocks of shorn \add sheep\add*, that have gone up from the washing; all of them bearing twins, and there is not a barren one among them.

4:3
Thy lips are as a thread of scarlet, and thy speech is comely: like the rind of a pomegranate is thy cheek without thy veil.

4:4
Thy neck is as the tower of David, that was built for an armoury: a thousand shields hang upon it, \add and\add* all darts of mighty men.

4:5
Thy two breasts are as two twin fawns, that feed among the lilies.

4:6
Until the day dawn, and the shadows depart, I will betake me to the mountain of myrrh, and to the hill of frankincense.

4:7
Thou art all fair, my companion, and there is no spot in thee.

4:8
Come from Libanus, \add my\add* bride, come from Libanus: thou shalt come and pass from the top of Faith, from the top of Sanir and Hermon, from the lions' dens, from the mountains of the leopards.

4:9
My sister, \add my\add* spouse, thou hast ravished my heart; thou hast ravished my heart with one of thine eyes, with one chain of thy neck.

4:10
How beautiful are thy breasts, my sister, my spouse! how much more beautiful are thy breasts than wine, and the smell of thy garments than all spices!

4:11
Thy lips drop honeycomb, my spouse: honey and milk are under thy tongue; and the smell of thy garments is as the smell of Libanus.

4:12
My sister, \add my\add* spouse is a garden enclosed; a garden enclosed, a fountain sealed.

4:13
Thy shoots are a garden of pomegranates, with the fruit of choice berries; camphor, with spikenard:

4:14
spikenard and saffron, calamus and cinnamon; with all woods of Libanus, myrrh, aloes, with all chief spices:

4:15
a fountain of a garden, and a well of water springing and gurgling from Libanus.

4:16
Awake, O north wind; and come, O south; and blow through my garden, and let my spices flow out.
