3:1
O city of blood, wholly false, full of unrighteousness; the prey shall not be handled.

3:2
The noise of whips, and the noise of the rumbling of wheels, and of the pursuing horse, and of the bounding chariot,

3:3
and of the mounting rider, and of the glittering sword, and of the gleaming arms, and of a multitude of slain, and of heavy falling: and there was no end to her nations, but they shall be weak in their bodies

3:4
because of the abundance of fornication: \add she is\add* a fair harlot, and well-favoured, skilled in sorcery, that sells the nations by her fornication, and peoples by her sorceries.

3:5
Behold, I am against thee, saith the Lord God Almighty, and I will uncover thy skirts in thy presence, and I will shew the nations thy shame, and the kingdoms thy disgrace.

3:6
And I will cast abominable filth upon thee according to thine unclean ways, and will make thee a public example.

3:7
And it shall be \add that\add* every one that sees thee shall go down from thee, and shall say, Wretched Nineve! who shall lament for her? whence shall I seek comfort for her?

3:8
Prepare thee a portion, tune the chord, prepare a portion for Ammon: she that dwells among the rivers, water is round about her, whose dominion is the sea, and whose walls are water.

3:9
And Ethiopia is her strength, and Egypt; and there was no limit of the flight \add of her enemies\add*; and the Libyans became her helpers.

3:10
Yet she shall go as a prisoner into captivity, and they shall dash her infants against the ground at the top of all her ways: and they shall cast lots upon all her glorious \add possessions\add*, and all her nobles shall be bound in chains.

3:11
And thou shalt be drunken, and shalt be overlooked; and thou shalt seek for thyself strength because of \add thine\add* enemies.

3:12
All thy strong-holds are as fig-trees having watchers: if they be shaken, they shall fall into the mouth of the eater.

3:13
Behold, thy people within thee are as women: the gates of thy land shall surely be opened to thine enemies: the fire shall devour thy bars.

3:14
Draw thee water for a siege, and well secure thy strong-holds: enter into the clay, and be thou trodden in the chaff, make \add the fortifications\add* stronger than brick.

3:15
There the fire shall devour thee; the sword shall utterly destroy thee, it shall devour thee as the locust, and thou shalt be pressed down as a palmerworm.

3:16
Thou hast multiplied thy merchandise beyond the stars of heaven: the palmerworm has attacked \add it\add*, and has flown away.

3:17
Thy mixed \add multitude\add* has suddenly departed as the grasshopper, as the locust perched on a hedge in a frosty day; the sun arises, and it flies off, and knows not its place: woe to them!

3:18
Thy shepherds have slumbered, the Assyrian king has laid low thy mighty men: thy people departed to the mountains, and there was none to receive \add them\add*.

3:19
There is no healing for thy bruise; thy wound has rankled: all that hear the report of thee shall clap their hands against thee; for upon whom has not thy wickedness passed continually?
