24:1
Behold, the Lord is about to lay waste the world, and will make it desolate, and will lay bare the surface of it, and scatter them that dwell therein.

24:2
And the people shall be as the priest, and the servant as the lord, and the maid as the mistress; the buyer shall be as the seller, the lender as the borrower, and the debtor as his creditor.

24:3
The earth shall be completely laid waste, and the earth shall be utterly spoiled: for the mouth of the Lord has spoken these things.

24:4
The earth mourns, and the world is ruined, the lofty ones of the earth are mourning.

24:5
And she has sinned by reason of her inhabitants; because they have transgressed the law, and changed the ordinances, \add even\add* the everlasting covenant.

24:6
Therefore a curse shall consume the earth, because the inhabitants thereof have sinned: therefore the dwellers in the earth shall be poor, and few men shall be left.

24:7
The wine shall mourn, the vine shall mourn, all the merry-hearted shall sigh.

24:8
The mirth of timbrels has ceased, the sound of the harp has ceased.

24:9
They are ashamed, they have not drunk wine; strong drink has become bitter to them that drink \add it\add*.

24:10
All the city has become desolate: one shall shut his house so that none shall enter.

24:11
There is a howling for the wine everywhere; all the mirth of the land has ceased, all the mirth of the land has departed.

24:12
And cities shall be left desolate, and houses being left shall fall to ruin.

24:13
All this shall be in the land in the midst of the nations, as if one should strip an olive tree, so shall they strip them; but when the vintage is done,

24:14
these shall cry aloud; and they that are left on the land shall rejoice together in the glory of the Lord: the water of the sea shall be troubled.

24:15
Therefore shall the glory of the Lord be in the isles of the sea; the name of the Lord shall be glorious.

24:16
O Lord God of Israel, from the ends of the earth we have heard wonderful things, \add and there is\add* hope to the godly: but they shall say, Woe to the despisers, that despise the law.

24:17
Fear, and a pit, and a snare, are upon you that dwell on the earth.

24:18
And it shall come to pass, \add that\add* he that flees from the fear shall fall into the pit; and he that comes up out of the pit shall be caught by the snare: for windows have been opened in heaven, and the foundations of the earth shall be shaken,

24:19
the earth shall be utterly confounded, and the earth shall be completely perplexed.

24:20
It reels as a drunkard and one oppressed with wine, and the earth shall be shaken as a storehouse of fruits; for iniquity has prevailed upon it, and it shall fall, and shall not be able to rise.

24:21
And God shall bring \add his\add* hand upon the host of heaven, and upon the kings of the earth.

24:22
And they shall gather the multitude thereof into prisons, and they shall shut them into a strong hold: after many generations they shall be visited.

24:23
And the brick shall decay, and the wall shall fall; for the Lord shall reign \f + \fr 24:23 \fqa Heb. \ft and \fqa Alex. \ft ‘in’.\f*from out of Sion, and out of Jerusalem, and shall be glorified before \add his\add* elders.
