11:1
And when Jabis the king of Asor heard, he sent to Jobab king of Maron, and to the king of Symoön, and to the king of Aziph,

11:2
and to the kings who were by the great Sidon, to the hill country and to Araba opposite Keneroth, and to the plain, and to Phenaeddor,

11:3
and to the Chananites on the coast eastward, and to the Amorites on the coast, and the Chettites, and the Pherezites, and the Jebusites in the mountain, and the Evites, and those dwelling under \add mount\add* Aermon in the land Massyma.

11:4
And they and their kings with them went forth, as the sand of the sea in multitude, and horses, and very many chariots.

11:5
And all the kings assembled in person, and came to the same place, and encamped at the waters of Maron to war with Israel.

11:6
And the Lord said to Joshua, Be not afraid of them, for to-morrow \add at\add* this time I will put them to flight before Israel: thou shalt hough their horses, and burn their chariots with fire.

11:7
And Joshua and all the men of war came upon them \f + \fr 11:7 \fqa Gr. \ft to.\f*at the water of Maron suddenly; and they attacked them in the hill country.

11:8
And the Lord delivered them into the power of Israel; and they smote them and pursued them to great Sidon, and to Maseron, and to the plains of Massoch eastward; and they destroyed them till there was not one of them left that survived.

11:9
And Joshua did to them, as the Lord commanded him: he houghed their horses, and burned their chariots with fire.

11:10
And Joshua returned at that time, and took Asor and her king; now Asor in former time was the chief of these kingdoms.

11:11
And they slew with the sword all that breathed in it, and utterly destroyed them all, and there was no living thing left in it; and they burnt Asor with fire.

11:12
And Joshua took all the cities of the kingdoms, and their kings, and slew them with the edge of the sword; and utterly slew them, as Moses the servant of the Lord commanded.

11:13
But all the walled cities Israel burnt not; but Israel burnt Asor only.

11:14
And the children of Israel took all its spoils to themselves; and they slew all the men with the edge of the sword, until he destroyed them; they left not one of them breathing.

11:15
As the Lord commanded his servant Moses, even so Moses commanded Joshua; and so Joshua did, he transgressed no precept of all that Moses commanded him.

11:16
And Joshua took all the hill country, and all the land of Nageb, and all the land of Gosom, and the plain country, and that toward the west, and the mountain of Israel and the low country by the mountain;

11:17
from the mountain of Chelcha, and that which goes up to Seir, and as far as Balagad, and the plains of Libanus, under mount Aermon; and he took all their kings, and destroyed, and slew them.

11:18
And for many days Joshua waged war with these kings.

11:19
And there was no city which Israel took not; they took all in war.

11:20
For it was of the Lord to \f + \fr 11:20 \fqa Gr. \ft strengthen.\f*harden their hearts to go forth to war against Israel, that they might be utterly destroyed, that mercy should not be granted to them, but that they should be utterly destroyed, as the Lord said to Moses.

11:21
And Joshua came at that time, and utterly destroyed the Enakim out of the hill country, from Chebron and from Dabir, and from Anaboth, and from all the \f + \fr 11:21 \fqa Heb. \ft הר ישראל probably הר for דור a mountain, not a generation.\f*race of Israel, and from all the mountain of Juda with their cities; and Joshua utterly destroyed them.

11:22
There was not \add any one\add* left of the Enakim by the children of Israel, only there was left of them in Gaza, and in Gath, and in Aseldo.

11:23
And Joshua took all the land, as the Lord commanded Moses; and Joshua gave them for an inheritance to Israel by division according to their tribes; and the land ceased from war.
