3:1
Alas the glorious and ransomed city.

3:2
The dove hearkened not to the voice; she received not correction; she trusted not in the Lord, and she drew not near to her God.

3:3
Her princes within her were as roaring lions, her judges as the wolves of Arabia; they remained not till the morrow.

3:4
Her prophets are light \add and\add* scornful men: her priests profane the holy things, and sinfully transgress the law.

3:5
But the just Lord is in the midst of her, and he will never do an unjust thing: morning by morning he will bring out his judgment to the light, and it is not hidden, and he knows not injustice by extortion, nor injustice in strife.

3:6
I have brought down the proud with destruction; their corners are destroyed: I will make their ways completely waste, so that none shall go through: their cities are come to an end, by reason of no man living or dwelling \add in them\add*.

3:7
I said, But do ye fear me, and receive instruction, and ye shall not be cut off from the face of the land \add for\add* all the vengeance I have brought upon her: prepare thou, rise early: all their produce is spoilt.

3:8
Therefore wait upon me, saith the Lord, until the day when I rise up for a witness: because my judgment \add shall be\add* on the gatherings of the nations, to draw to me kings, to pour out upon them all \add my\add* fierce anger: for the whole earth shall be consumed with the fire of my jealousy.

3:9
For then will I turn to the peoples a tongue for her generation, that all may call on the name of the Lord, to serve him under one yoke.

3:10
From the boundaries of the rivers of Ethiopia will I receive my dispersed ones; they shall offer sacrifices to me.

3:11
In that day thou shalt not be ashamed of all thy practices, wherein thou hast transgressed against me: for then will I take away from thee thy disdainful pride, and thou shalt no more magnify thyself upon my holy mountain.

3:12
And I will leave in thee a meek and lowly people;

3:13
and the remnant of Israel shall fear the name of the Lord, and shall do no iniquity, neither shall they speak vanity; neither shall a deceitful tongue be found in their mouth: for they shall feed, and lie down, and there shall be none to terrify them.

3:14
Rejoice, O daughter of Sion; cry aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem; rejoice and delight thyself with all thine heart, O daughter of Jerusalem.

3:15
The Lord has taken away thine iniquities, he has ransomed thee from the hand of thine enemies: the Lord, the King of Israel, is in the midst of thee: thou shalt not see evil any more.

3:16
At that time the Lord shall say to Jerusalem, Be of good courage, Sion; let not thine hands be slack.

3:17
The Lord thy God is in thee; the Mighty One shall save thee: he shall bring joy upon thee, and shall refresh thee with his love; and he shall rejoice over thee with delight as in a day of feasting.

3:18
And I will gather thine afflicted ones. Alas! who has taken up a reproach against her?

3:19
Behold, I \add will\add* work in thee for thy sake at that time, saith the Lord: and I will save her that was oppressed, and receive her that was rejected; and I will make them a praise, and honoured in all the earth.

3:20
And \add their enemies\add* shall be ashamed at that time, when I shall deal well with you, and at the time when I shall receive you: for I will make you honoured and a praise among all the nations of the earth, when I turn back your captivity before you, saith the Lord.
