2:1
Be ye gathered and closely joined together, O unchastened nation;

2:2
before ye become as the flower that passes away, before the anger of the Lord come upon you, before the day of the wrath of the Lord come upon you.

2:3
Seek ye the Lord, all ye meek of the earth; do judgment, and seek justice, and answer accordingly; that ye may be hid in the day of the wrath of the Lord.

2:4
For Gaza shall be utterly spoiled, and Ascalon shall be destroyed; and Azotus shall be cast forth at noon-day, and Accaron shall be rooted up.

2:5
Woe to them that dwell on the border of the sea, neighbours of the Cretans! the word of the Lord is against you, O Chanaan, land of the Philistines, and I will destroy you out of \add your\add* dwelling-place.

2:6
And Crete shall be a pasture of flocks, and a fold of sheep.

2:7
And the sea coast shall be for the remnant of the house of Juda; they shall pasture upon them in the houses of Ascalon; they shall rest in the evening because of the children of Juda; for the Lord their God has visited them, and he will turn away their captivity.

2:8
I have heard the revilings of Moab, and the insults of the children of Ammon, wherewith they have reviled my people, and magnified themselves against my coasts.

2:9
Therefore, \add as\add* I live, saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Moab shall be as Sodoma, and the children of Ammon as Gomorrha; and Damascus \add shall be\add* left as a heap of the threshing-floor, and desolate for ever: and the remnant of my people shall plunder them, and the remnant of my nation shall inherit them.

2:10
This is their punishment in return for their haughtiness, because they have reproached and magnified themselves against the Lord Almighty.

2:11
The Lord shall appear against them, and shall utterly destroy all the gods of the nations of the earth; and they shall worship him every one from his place, \add even\add* all the islands of the nations.

2:12
Ye Ethiopians also are the slain of my sword.

2:13
And he shall stretch forth his hand against the north and destroy the Assyrian, and make Nineve a dry wilderness, \add even\add* as a desert.

2:14
And flocks, and all the wild beasts of the land, and chameleons shall feed in the midst thereof: and hedgehogs shall lodge in the ceilings thereof; and wild beasts shall cry in the breaches thereof, and ravens in her porches, whereas her loftiness was \add as\add* a cedar.

2:15
This is the scornful city that dwells securely, that says in her heart, I am, and there is no longer any \add to be\add* after me: how is she become desolate, a habitation of wild beasts! every one that passes through her shall hiss, and shake his hands.
