6:1
And the Lord said to Moses, Now thou shalt see what I will do to Pharao; for he shall send them forth with a mighty hand, and with a high arm shall he cast them out of his land.

6:2
And God spoke to Moses and said to him, I \add am\add* the \f + \fr 6:2 \fqa Or, \ft The Lord.\f*Lord.

6:3
And I appeared to Abraam and Isaac and Jacob, being their God, but I did not manifest to them my name Lord.

6:4
And I established my covenant with them, to give them the land of the Chananites, the land wherein they sojourned, in which also they dwelt as strangers.

6:5
And I hearkened to the groaning of the children of Israel (the affliction with which the Egyptians enslave them) and I remembered the covenant with you.\f + \fr 6:5 \fqa Lit. \ft your covenant.\f*

6:6
Go, speak to the children of Israel, saying, I \add am\add* the Lord; and I will lead you forth from the tyranny of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from bondage, and I will ransom you with a high arm, and great judgment.

6:7
And I will take you to me a people for myself, and will be your God; and ye shall know that I am the Lord your God, who brought you out from the tyranny of the Egyptians.

6:8
And I will bring you into the land concerning which I stretched out my hand to give it to Abraam and Isaac and Jacob, and I will give it you for an inheritance: I \add am\add* the Lord.

6:9
And Moses spoke thus to the sons of Israel, and they hearkened not to Moses for faint-heartedness, and for their hard tasks.

6:10
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,

6:11
Go in, speak to Pharao king of Egypt, that he send forth the children of Israel out of his land.

6:12
And Moses spoke before the Lord, saying, Behold, the children of Israel hearkened not to me, and how shall Pharao hearken to me? and I am not eloquent.

6:13
And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, and gave them a charge to Pharao king of Egypt, that he should send forth the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt.

6:14
And these are the heads of the houses of their families: the sons of Ruben the first-born of Israel; Enoch and Phallus, Asron, and Charmi, this is the kindred of Ruben.

6:15
And the sons of Symeon, Jemuel and Jamin, and Aod, and Jachin and Saar, and Saul the son of a Phœnician woman, these are the families of the sons of Symeon.

6:16
And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their kindreds, Gedson, Caath, and Merari; and the years of the life of Levi were a hundred and thirty-seven.

6:17
And these are the sons of Gedson, Lobeni and Semei, the houses of their family. And the sons of Caath,

6:18
Ambram and Issaar, Chebron, and Oziel; and the years of the life of Caath were a \f + \fr 6:18 \fqa Alex. \ft 130 years.\f*hundred and thirty-three years.

6:19
And the sons of Merari, Moöli, and Omusi, these are the houses of the families of Levi, according to their kindreds.

6:20
And Ambram took to wife Jochabed the daughter of his father's brother, and she bore to him both Aaron and Moses, and Mariam their sister: and the years of the life of Ambram were a \f + \fr 6:20 \fqa Alex. \ft 136 years.\f*hundred and thirty-two years.

6:21
And the sons of Issaar, Core, and Naphec, and Zechri.

6:22
And the sons of Oziel, Misael, and Elisaphan, and Segri.

6:23
And Aaron took to himself to wife Elisabeth daughter of Aminadab sister of Naasson, and she bore to him both Nadab and Abiud, and Eleazar and Ithamar.

6:24
And the sons of Core, Asir, and Elkana, and Abiasar, these are the generations of Core.

6:25
And Eleazar the son of Aaron took to himself for a wife \add one\add* of the daughters of Phutiel, and she bore to him Phinees. These are the heads of the family of the Levites, according to their generations.

6:26
This is Aaron and Moses, whom God told to bring out the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt with their forces.

6:27
These are they that spoke with Pharao king of Egypt, and Aaron himself and Moses brought out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt,

6:28
in the day in which the Lord spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt;

6:29
then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, I am the Lord: speak to Pharao king of Egypt whatsoever I say to thee.

6:30
And Moses said before the Lord, Behold, I am not able in speech, and how shall Pharao hearken to me?
