14:1
And Chiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar timbers, and masons, and carpenters, to build a house for him.

14:2
And David knew that the Lord \add had\add* designed him to be king over Israel; because his kingdom was highly exalted, on account of his people Israel.

14:3
And David took more wives in Jerusalem: and there were born to David more sons and daughters.

14:4
And these \add are\add* the names of those that were born, who were \add born\add* to him in Jerusalem; Samaa, Sobab, Nathan, and Solomon,

14:5
and Baar, and Elisa, and Eliphaleth,

14:6
and Nageth, and Naphath, and Japhie,

14:7
and Elisamae, and Eliade, and Eliphala.

14:8
And the Philistines heard that David was anointed king over all Israel: and all the Philistines went up to seek David; and David heard \add it\add*, and went out to meet them.

14:9
And the Philistines came and assembled together in the giants' valley.

14:10
And David enquired of God, saying, Shall I go up against the Philistines? and wilt thou deliver them into my hand? And the Lord said to him, Go up, and I will deliver them into thy hands.

14:11
And he went up to Baal Pharasin, and David smote them there; and David said, God has broken through enemies by my hand like a breach of water: therefore he called the name of that place, the Breach of Pharasin.

14:12
And the Philistines left their gods there; and David gave orders to burn them with fire.

14:13
And the Philistines once more assembled themselves in the giants' valley.

14:14
And David enquired of God again; and God said to him, Thou shalt not go after them; turn away from them, and thou shalt come upon them near the pear trees.

14:15
And it shall be, when thou shalt hear the sound of their tumult in the tops of the pear trees, then thou shalt go into the battle: for God has gone out before thee to smite the army of the Philistines.

14:16
And he did as God commanded him: and he smote the army of the Philistines from Gabaon to Gazera.

14:17
And the name of David was \add famous\add* in all the land; and the Lord put the terror of him on all the nations.
