6:1
But Job answered and said,

6:2
Oh that one would indeed weigh the wrath that is upon me, and take up my griefs in a balance together!

6:3
And verily they would be heavier than the sand by the seashore: but, as it seems, my words are vain.

6:4
For the arrows of the Lord are in my body, whose violence drinks up my blood: whenever I am going to speak, they pierce me.

6:5
What then? will the wild ass bray for nothing, if he is not seeking food? or again, will the ox low at the manger, when he has fodder?

6:6
Shall bread be eaten without salt? or again, is there taste in empty words?

6:7
For my wrath cannot cease; for I perceive my food as the smell of a lion \add to be\add* loathsome.

6:8
For oh that he would grant \add my desire\add*, and my petition might come, and the Lord would grant my hope!

6:9
Let the Lord begin and wound me, but let him not utterly destroy me.

6:10
Let the grave be my city, upon the walls of which I have leaped: I will not shrink from it; for I have not denied the holy words of my God.

6:11
For what is my strength, that I continue? what is my time, that my soul endures?

6:12
Is my strength the strength of stones? or is my flesh of brass?

6:13
Or have I not trusted in him? but help is \add far\add* from me.

6:14
Mercy has rejected me; and the visitation of the Lord has disregarded me.

6:15
My nearest relations have not regarded me; they have passed me by like a failing brook, or like a wave.

6:16
They who used to reverence me, now have come against me like snow or congealed ice.

6:17
When it has melted at the approach of heat, it is not known what it was.

6:18
Thus I also have been deserted of all; and I am ruined, and become an outcast.

6:19
Behold the ways of the Thæmanites, ye that mark the paths of the Sabæans.

6:20
They too that trust in cities and riches shall come to shame.

6:21
But ye also have come to me without pity; so that beholding my wound ye are afraid.

6:22
What? have I made any demand of you? or do I ask for strength from you,

6:23
to deliver me from enemies, or to rescue me from the hand of the mighty ones?

6:24
Teach ye me, and I will be silent: if in anything I have erred, tell me.

6:25
But as it seems, the words of a true man are vain, because I do not ask strength of you.

6:26
Neither will your reproof cause me to cease my words, for neither will I endure the sound of your speech.

6:27
Even because ye attack the fatherless, and insult your friend.

6:28
But now, having looked upon your countenances, I will not lie.

6:29
Sit down now, and let there not be unrighteousness; and unite again with the just.

6:30
For there is no injustice in my tongue; and does not my throat meditate understanding?
