5:1
But call, if any one will hearken to thee, or if thou shalt see any of the holy angels.

5:2
For wrath destroys the foolish one, and envy slays him that has gone astray.

5:3
And I have seen foolish ones taking root: but suddenly their habitation was devoured.

5:4
Let their children be far from safety, and let them be crushed at the doors of vile men, and let there be no deliverer.

5:5
For what they have collected, the just shall eat; but they shall not be delivered out of calamities: let their strength be utterly exhausted.

5:6
For labour cannot by any means come out of the earth, nor shall trouble spring out of the mountains:

5:7
yet man is born to labour, and \add even so\add* the vulture's young seek the high places.

5:8
Nevertheless I will beseech the Lord, and will call upon the Lord, the sovereign of all;

5:9
who does great things and untraceable, glorious things also, and marvellous, of which there is no number:

5:10
who gives rain upon the earth, sending water on the earth:

5:11
who exalts the lowly, and raises up them that are lost:

5:12
frustrating the counsels of the crafty, and their hands shall not perform the truth:

5:13
who takes the wise in their wisdom, and subverts the counsel of the crafty.

5:14
In the day darkness shall come upon them, and let them grope in the noon-day even as in the night:

5:15
and let them perish in war, and let the weak escape from the hand of the mighty.

5:16
And let the weak have hope, but the mouth of the unjust be stopped.

5:17
But blessed \add is\add* the man whom the Lord has reproved; and reject not thou the chastening of the Almighty.

5:18
For he causes \add a man\add* to be in pain, and restores \add him\add* again: he smites, and his hands heal.

5:19
Six times he shall deliver thee out of distresses: and in the seventh harm shall not touch thee.

5:20
In famine he shall deliver thee from death: and in war he shall free thee from the power of the sword.

5:21
He shall hide thee from the scourge of the tongue: and thou shalt not be afraid of coming evils.

5:22
Thou shalt laugh at the unrighteous and the lawless: and thou shalt not be afraid of wild beasts.

5:23
For the wild beasts of the field shall be at peace with thee.

5:24
Then shalt thou know that thy house shall be at peace, and the provision for thy tabernacle shall not fail.

5:25
And thou shalt know that thy seed \add shall be\add* abundant; and thy children shall be like the herbage of the field.

5:26
And thou shalt come to the grave like ripe corn reaped in its season, or as a heap of the corn-flour collected in proper time.

5:27
Behold, we have thus sought out these matters; these are what we have heard: but do thou reflect with thyself, if thou hast done anything \add wrong\add*.
