42:1
Then Job answered and said to the Lord,

42:2
I know that thou canst do all things, and nothing is impossible with thee.

42:3
For who is he that hides counsel from thee? or who keeps back his words, and thinks to hide them from thee? and who will tell me what I knew not, great and wonderful things which I understood not?

42:4
But hear me, O Lord, that I also may speak: and I will ask thee, and do thou teach me.

42:5
I have heard the report of thee by the ear before; but now mine eye has seen thee.

42:6
Wherefore I have counted myself vile, and have fainted: and I esteem myself dust and ashes.

42:7
And it came to pass after the Lord had spoken all these words to Job, \add that\add* the Lord said to Eliphaz the Thæmanite, Thou hast sinned, and thy two friends: for ye have not said anything true before me, as my servant Job \add has\add*.

42:8
Now then take seven bullocks, and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and he shall offer a burnt-offering for you. And my servant Job shall pray for you, for I will only accept him: for but for his sake, I would have destroyed you, for ye have not spoken the truth against my servant Job.

42:9
So Eliphaz the Thæmanite, and Baldad the Sauchite, and Sophar the Minæan, went and did as the Lord commanded them: and he pardoned their sin for the sake of Job.

42:10
And the Lord prospered Job: and when he prayed also for his friends, he forgave them \add their\add* sin: and the Lord gave Job twice as much, even the double of what he had before.

42:11
And all his brethren and his sisters heard all that had happened to him, and they came to him, and \add so did\add* all that had known him from the first: and they ate and drank with him, and comforted him, and wondered at all that the Lord had brought upon him: and each one gave him a lamb, and four drachms' weight of gold, even of unstamped \add gold\add*.

42:12
And the Lord blessed the latter end of Job, \add more\add* than the beginning: and his cattle were fourteen thousand sheep, six thousand camels, a thousand yoke of oxen, a thousand she-asses of the pastures.

42:13
And there were born to him seven sons and three daughters.

42:14
And he called the first, Day, and the second, Casia, and the third, Amalthæa's horn.

42:15
And there were not found in comparison with the daughters of Job, fairer \add women\add* than they in all the world: and their father gave them an inheritance among their brethren.

42:16
And Job lived after \add his\add* affliction a hundred and seventy years: and all the years he lived were two hundred and forty: and Job saw his sons and his sons' sons, the fourth generation.

42:17
e And \add his\add* friends who came to him were Eliphaz, of the children of Esau, king of the Thæmanites, Baldad sovereign of the Sauchæans, Sophar king of the Minæans.
