4:1
Then Eliphaz the Thæmanite answered and said,

4:2
Hast thou been often spoken to in distress? but who shall endure the force of thy words?

4:3
For whereas thou hast instructed many, and hast strengthened the hands of the weak one,

4:4
and hast supported the failing with words, and hast imparted courage to feeble knees.

4:5
Yet now \add that\add* pain has come upon thee, and touched thee, thou art troubled.

4:6
Is not thy fear \add founded\add* in folly, thy hope also, and the mischief of thy way?

4:7
Remember then who has perished, being pure? or when were the true-hearted utterly destroyed?

4:8
Accordingly as I have seen men ploughing barren places, and they that sow them will reap sorrows for themselves.

4:9
They shall perish by the command of the Lord, and shall be utterly consumed by the breath of his wrath.

4:10
The strength of the lion, and the voice of the lioness, and the exulting cry of serpents are quenched.

4:11
The old lion has perished for want of food, and the lions' whelps have forsaken one another.

4:12
But if there had been any truth in thy words, none of these evils would have befallen thee. Shall not mine ear receive excellent \add revelations\add* from him?

4:13
But \add as when\add* terror falls upon men, with dread and a sound in the night,

4:14
horror and trembling seized me, and caused all my bones greatly to shake.

4:15
And a spirit came before my face; and my hair and flesh quivered.

4:16
I arose and perceived it not: I looked, and there was no form before my eyes: but I only heard a breath and a voice, \add saying\add*,

4:17
What, shall a mortal be pure before the Lord? or a man be blameless in regard to his works?

4:18
Whereas he trusts not in his servants, and perceives perverseness in his angels.

4:19
But \add as for\add* them that dwell in houses of clay, of whom we also are formed of the same clay, he smites them like a moth.

4:20
And from morning to evening they no longer exist: they have perished, because they cannot help themselves.

4:21
For he blows upon them, and they are withered: they have perished for lack of wisdom.
