10:1
Israel is a vine with goodly branches, her fruit is abundant: according to the multitude of her fruits she has multiplied \add her\add* altars; according to the wealth of his land, he has set up pillars.

10:2
They have divided their hearts; now shall they be utterly destroyed: he shall dig down their altars, their pillars shall mourn.

10:3
Because now they shall say, We have no king, because we feared not the Lord:

10:4
and what should a king do for us, speaking false professions \add as his\add* words? he will make a covenant: judgment shall spring up as a weed on the soil of the field.

10:5
The inhabitants of Samaria shall dwell near the calf of the house of On; for the people of it mourned for it: and as they provoked him, they shall rejoice at his glory, because he has departed from them.

10:6
And having bound it for the Assyrians, they carried it away as presents to king Jarim: Ephraim shall receive a gift, and Israel shall be ashamed of his counsel.

10:7
Samaria has cast off her king as a twig on the surface of the water.

10:8
And the altars of On, the sins of Israel, shall be taken away: thorns and thistles shall come up on their altars; and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us; and to the hills, Fall on us.

10:9
From the time the hills \add existed\add* Israel has sinned: there they stood: war \add waged\add* against the children of iniquity

10:10
to chastise them shall not overtake them on the hill, the nations shall be gathered against them, when they are chastened for their two sins.

10:11
Ephraim is a heifer taught to love victory, but I will come upon the fairest part of her neck: I will mount Ephraim; I will pass over Juda in silence; Jacob shall prevail against him.

10:12
Sow to yourselves for righteousness, gather in for the fruit of life: light ye for yourselves the light of knowledge; seek the Lord till the fruits of righteousness come upon you.

10:13
Wherefore have ye passed over ungodliness in silence, and reaped the sins of it? ye have eaten false fruit; for thou hast trusted in thy sins, in the abundance of thy power.

10:14
Therefore shall destruction rise up among thy people, and all thy strong places shall be ruined: as prince Solomon \add departed\add* out of the house of Jeroboam, in the days of battle they dashed the mother to the ground upon the children,

10:15
thus will I do to you, O house of Israel, because of the unrighteousness of your sins.
