12:1
Ephraim has compassed me with falsehood, and the house of Israel and Juda with ungodliness: \add but\add* now God knows them, and they shall be called God's holy people.

12:2
But Ephraim is an evil spirit, he has chased the east wind all the day: he has multiplied empty and vain things, and made a covenant with the Assyrians, and oil has gone in the way of traffic into Egypt.

12:3
And the Lord \add has\add* a controversy with Juda, in order to punish Jacob: according to his ways and according to his practices will he recompense him.

12:4
He took his brother by the heel in the womb, and in his labours he had power with God.

12:5
And he prevailed with the angel and was strong: they wept, and intreated me: they found me in the house of On, and there \add a word\add* was spoken to them.

12:6
But the Lord God Almighty shall be his memorial.

12:7
Thou therefore shalt return to thy God: keep thou mercy and judgment, and draw nigh to thy God continually.

12:8
\add As for\add* Chanaan, in his hand is a balance of unrighteousness: he has loved to tyrannise.

12:9
And Ephraim said, Nevertheless I am rich, I have found refreshment to myself. None of his labours shall be found \add available\add* to him, by reason of the sins which he has committed.

12:10
But I the Lord thy God brought thee up out of the land of Egypt: I will yet cause thee to dwell in tabernacles, according to the days of the feast.

12:11
And I will speak to the prophets, and I have multiplied visions, and by the means of the prophets I was represented.

12:12
If Galaad exists not, then the chiefs in Galaad when they sacrificed were false, and their altars were as heaps on the ground of the field.

12:13
And Jacob retreated into the plain of Syria, and Israel served for a wife, and waited for a wife.

12:14
And the Lord brought Israel out of the land of Egypt by a prophet, and by a prophet was he preserved.

12:15
Ephraim was angry and excited, therefore his blood shall be poured out upon him, and the Lord shall recompense to him his reproach.
