5:1
Hear these things, ye priests; and attend, O house of Israel; and hearken, O house of the king; for the controversy is with you, because ye have been a snare in Scopia, and as a net spread on Itabyrium,

5:2
which they that hunt the prey have fixed: but I will correct you.

5:3
I know Ephraim, and Israel is not far from me: for now Ephraim has gone grievously a-whoring, Israel is defiled.

5:4
They have not framed their counsels to return to their God, for the spirit of fornication is in them, and they have not known the Lord.

5:5
And the pride of Israel shall be brought low before his face; and Israel and Ephraim shall fall in their iniquities; and Judas also shall fall with them.

5:6
They shall go with sheep and calves diligently to seek the Lord; but they shall not find him, for he has withdrawn himself from them.

5:7
For they have forsaken the Lord; for strange children have been born to them: now shall the cankerworm devour them and their heritages.

5:8
Blow ye the trumpet on the hills, sound aloud on the heights: proclaim in the house of On, Benjamin is amazed.

5:9
Ephraim has come to nought in the days of reproof: in the tribes of Israel I have shown faithful \add dealings\add*.

5:10
The princes of Juda became as they that removed the bounds: I will pour out upon them my fury as water.

5:11
Ephraim altogether prevailed against his adversary, he trod judgment under foot, for he began to go after vanities.

5:12
Therefore I \add will be\add* as consternation to Ephraim, and as a goad to the house of Juda.

5:13
And Ephraim saw his disease, and Judas his pain; then Ephraim went to the Assyrians, and sent ambassadors to king Jarim: but he could not heal you, and your pain shall in nowise cease from you.

5:14
Wherefore I am as a panther to Ephraim, and as a lion to the house of Juda: and I will tear, and go away; and I will take, and there shall be none to deliver.

5:15
I will go and return to my place, until they are brought to nought, and \add then\add* shall they seek my face. In their affliction they will seek me early, saying,
