2:1
Yet the number of the children of Israel was as the sand of the sea, which shall not be measured nor numbered; and it shall come to pass, \add that\add* in the place where it was said to them, Ye are not my people, even they shall be called the sons of the living God.

2:2
And the children of Juda shall be gathered, and the children of Israel together, and shall appoint themselves one head, and shall come up out of the land: for great \add shall be\add* the day of Jezrael.

2:3
Say to your brother, My people, and to your sister, Pitied.

2:4
Plead with your mother, plead: for she is not my wife, and I am not her husband: and I will remove her fornication out of my presence, and her adultery from between her breasts:

2:5
that I may strip her naked, and make her again as she was at the day of her birth: and I will make her desolate, and make her as a dry land, and will kill her with thirst.

2:6
And I will not have mercy upon her children; for they are children of fornication.

2:7
And their mother went a-whoring: she that bore them disgraced \add them\add*: for she said, I will go after my lovers, that give me my bread and my water, and my garments, and my linen clothes, my oil and all my necessaries.

2:8
Therefore, behold, I hedge up her way with thorns, and will stop the ways, and she shall not find her path.

2:9
And she shall follow after her lovers, and shall not overtake them; and she shall seek them, but shall not find them: and she shall say, I will go, and return to my former husband; for it was better with me than now.

2:10
And she knew not that I gave her her corn, and wine, and oil, and multiplied silver to her: but she made silver and gold \add images\add* for Baal.

2:11
Therefore I will return, and take away my corn in its season, and my wine in its time; and I will take away my raiment and my linen clothes, so that she shall not cover her nakedness.

2:12
And now I will expose her uncleanness before her lovers, and no one shall by any means deliver her out of my hand.

2:13
And I will take away all her gladness, her feasts, and her festivals at the new moon, and her sabbaths, and all her solemn assemblies.

2:14
And I will utterly destroy her vines, and her fig-trees, all things of which she said, These are my hire which my lovers have given me: and I will make them a testimony, and the wild beasts of the field, and the birds of the sky, and the reptiles of the earth shall devour them.

2:15
And I will recompense on her the days of Baalim, wherein she sacrificed to them, and put on her ear-rings, and her necklaces, and went after her lovers, and forgot me, saith the Lord.

2:16
Therefore, behold, I \add will\add* cause her to err, and will make her as desolate, and will speak comfortably to her.

2:17
And I will give her her possessions from thence, and the valley of Achor to open her understanding: and she shall be afflicted there according to the days of her infancy, and according to the days of her coming up out of the land of Egypt.

2:18
And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the Lord, \add that\add* she shall call me, My husband, and shall no longer call me Baalim.

2:19
And I will take away the names of Baalim out of her mouth, and their names shall be remembered no more at all.

2:20
And I will make for them in that day a covenant with the wild beasts of the field, and with the birds of the sky, and with the reptiles of the earth: and I will break the bow and the sword and the battle from off the earth, and will cause thee to dwell safely.

2:21
And I will betroth thee to myself for ever; yea, I will betroth thee to myself in righteousness, and in judgment, and in mercy, and in tender compassions;

2:22
and I will betroth thee to myself in faithfulness: and thou shalt know the Lord.

2:23
And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the Lord, I will hearken to the heaven, and it shall hearken to the earth;

2:24
and the earth shall hearken to the corn, and the wine, and the oil; and they shall hearken to Jezrael.

2:25
And I will sow her to me on the earth; and will love her that was not loved, and will say to that which was not my people, Thou art my people; and they shall say, Thou art the Lord my God.
