2:1
Thus saith the Lord; For three sins of Moab, and for four, I will not turn away from it; because they burnt the bones of the king of Idumea to lime.

2:2
But I will send forth a fire on Moab, and it shall devour the foundations of its cities: and Moab shall perish in weakness, with a shout, and with the sound of a trumpet.

2:3
And I will destroy the judge out of her, and slay all her princes with him, saith the Lord.

2:4
Thus saith the Lord; For three sins of the children of Juda, and for four, I will not turn away from him; because they have rejected the law of the Lord, and have not kept his ordinances, and their vain \add idols\add* which they made, which their fathers followed, caused them to err.

2:5
And I will send a fire on Juda, and it shall devour the foundations of Jerusalem.

2:6
Thus saith the Lord; For three sins of Israel, and for four, I will not turn away from him; because they sold the righteous for silver, and the poor for sandals,

2:7
wherewith to tread on the dust of the earth, and they have smitten upon the heads of the poor, and have perverted the way of the lowly: and a son and his father have gone in to the same maid, that they might profane the name of their God.

2:8
And binding their clothes with cords they have made them curtains near the altar, and they have drunk wine gained by extortion in the house of their God.

2:9
Nevertheless I cut off the Amorite from before them, whose height was as the height of a cedar, and he was strong as an oak; and I dried up his fruit from above, and his roots from beneath.

2:10
And I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and led you about in the desert forty years, that ye should inherit the land of the Amorites.

2:11
And I took of your sons for prophets, and of your young men for consecration. Are not these things so, ye sons of Israel? saith the Lord.

2:12
But ye gave the consecrated ones wine to drink; and ye commanded the prophets, saying, Prophesy not.

2:13
Therefore, behold, I roll under you, as a waggon full of straw is rolled.

2:14
And flight shall perish from the runner, and the strong shall not hold fast his strength, and the warrior shall not save his life:

2:15
and the archer shall not withstand, and he that is swift of foot shall in no wise escape; and the horseman shall not save his life.

2:16
And the strong shall find no confidence in power: the naked shall flee away in that day, saith the Lord.
