5:1
Hear ye this word of the Lord, even a lamentation, which I take up against you. The house of Israel is fallen; it shall no more rise.

5:2
The virgin of Israel has fallen upon his land; there is none that shall raise her up.

5:3
Therefore thus saith the Lord God; The city out of which there went forth a thousand, \add in it\add* there shall be left a hundred, and \add in that\add* out of which there went forth a hundred, there shall be left ten to the house of Israel.

5:4
Wherefore thus saith the Lord to the house of Israel, Seek ye me, and ye shall live.

5:5
But seek not Bæthel, and go not in to Galgala, and cross not over to the Well of the Oath: for Galgala shall surely go into captivity, and Bæthel shall be as that which is not.

5:6
Seek ye the Lord, and ye shall live; lest the house of Joseph blaze as fire, and it devour him, and there shall be none to quench it for the house of Israel.

5:7
\add It is he\add* that executes judgment in the height \add above\add*, and he has established justice on the earth:

5:8
who makes all things, and changes \add them\add*, and turns darkness into the morning, and darkens the day into night: who calls for the water of the sea, and pours it out on the face of the earth: the Lord is his name:

5:9
who dispenses ruin to strength, and brings distress upon the fortress.

5:10
They hated him that reproved in the gates, and abhorred holy speech.

5:11
Therefore because they have smitten the poor with their fists, and ye have received of them choice gifts; ye have built polished houses, but ye shall not dwell in them; ye have planted desirable vineyards, but ye shall not drink the wine of them.

5:12
For I know your many transgressions, and your sins are great, trampling on the just, taking bribes, and turning aside \add the judgment of\add* the poor in the gates.

5:13
Therefore the prudent shall be silent at that time; for it is a time of evils.

5:14
Seek good, and not evil, that ye may live: and so the Lord God Almighty shall be with you, as ye have said,

5:15
We have hated evil, and loved good: and restore ye judgment in the gates; that the Lord God Almighty may have mercy on the remnant of Joseph.

5:16
Therefore thus saith the Lord God Almighty; In all the streets \add shall be\add* lamentations; and in all the ways shall it be said, Woe, woe! the husbandman shall be called to mourning and lamentation, and to them that are skilled in complaining.

5:17
And \add there shall be\add* lamentation in all the ways; because I will pass through the midst of thee, saith the Lord.

5:18
Woe to you that desire the day of the Lord! what is this day of the Lord to you? whereas it is darkness, and not light.

5:19
As if a man should flee from the face of a lion, and a bear should meet him; and he should spring into his house, and lean his hands upon the wall, and a serpent should bite him.

5:20
Is not the day of the Lord darkness, and not light? and is not this \add day\add* gloom without brightness?

5:21
I hate, I reject your feasts, and I will not smell \add your\add* meat-offerings in your general assemblies.

5:22
Wherefore if ye should bring me your whole-burnt-sacrifices and meat-offerings, I will not accept \add them\add*: neither will I have respect to your grand peace-offerings.

5:23
Remove from me the sound of thy songs, and I will not hear the music of thine instruments.

5:24
But let judgment roll down as water, and righteousness as an impassable torrent.

5:25
Have ye offered to me victims and sacrifices, O house of Israel, forty years in the wilderness?

5:26
Yea, ye took up the tabernacle of Moloch, and the star of your god Ræphan, the images of them which ye made for yourselves.

5:27
And I will carry you away beyond Damascus, saith the Lord, the Almighty God is his name.
