19:1
And Josaphat king of Juda returned to his house at Jerusalem.

19:2
And there went out to meet him Jeu the prophet the son of Anani, and said to him, King Josaphat, dost thou help a sinner, or act friendly towards one hated of the Lord? Therefore has wrath come upon thee from the Lord.

19:3
Nevertheless \add some\add* good things have been found in thee, forasmuch as thou didst remove the groves from the land of Juda, and didst direct thine heart to seek after the Lord.

19:4
And Josaphat dwelt in Jerusalem: and he again went out among the people from Bersabee to the mount of Ephraim, and turned them back to the Lord God of their fathers.

19:5
And he appointed judges in all the strong cities of Juda, city by city.

19:6
And he said to the judges, Take good heed what ye do: for ye judge not for man, but for the Lord, and with you are matters of judgment.

19:7
And now let the fear of the Lord be upon you, and be wary, and do \add your duty\add*: for there is no unrighteousness with the Lord our God, neither \add is it for him\add* to respect persons, nor to take bribes.

19:8
Moreover Josaphat appointed in Jerusalem some of the priests, and Levites, and heads of houses of Israel, for the judgment of the Lord, and to judge the dwellers in Jerusalem.

19:9
And he charged them, saying, Thus shall ye do in the fear of the Lord, in truth and with a perfect heart.

19:10
Whatsoever man of your brethren that dwell in their cities \add shall bring\add* the cause that comes before you, between blood \add and\add* blood, and between precept and commandment, and ordinances and judgments, ye shall even decide for them; so they shall not sin against the Lord, and there shall not be wrath upon you, and upon your brethren: thus ye shall do, and ye shall not sin.

19:11
And, behold, Amarias the priest is head over you in every matter of the Lord; and Zabdias the son of Ismael is head over the house of Juda in every matter of the king; and the scribes and Levites are before you: be strong and active, and the Lord shall be with the good.
