35:1
And Josias kept a passover to the Lord his God; and sacrificed the passover on the fourteenth day of the first month.

35:2
And he appointed the priests at their charges, and encouraged them for the services of the house of the Lord.

35:3
And he told the Levites that were able \add to act\add* in all Israel, that they should consecrate themselves to the Lord: and they put the holy ark in the house which Solomon the son of David king of Israel built: and the king said, Ye must not carry anything on your shoulders: now then minister to the Lord your God, and to his people Israel.

35:4
And prepare yourselves according to the houses of your families, and according to your daily courses, according to the writing of David king of Israel, and \add the order\add* by the hand of his son Solomon.

35:5
And stand ye in the house according to the divisions of the houses of your families for your brethren the sons of the people; \add so\add* also let there be for the Levites a division of the house of their family.

35:6
And kill ye the passover, and prepare \add it\add* for your brethren, to do according to the word of the Lord, by the hand of Moses.

35:7
And Josias gave as an offering to the children of the people, sheep, and lambs, and kids of the young of the goats, all for the passover, \add even for\add* all that were found, in number \add amounting to\add* thirty thousand, and three thousand calves, these \add were\add* of the substance of the king.

35:8
And his princes gave an offering to the people, and to the priests, and to the Levites: and Chelcias and Zacharias and Jeiel the chief men gave to the priests of the house of God, they even gave for the passover sheep, and lambs, and kids, two thousand six hundred, and three hundred calves.

35:9
And Chonenias, and Banæas, and Samæas, and Nathanael his brother, and Asabias, and Jeiel, and Jozabad, heads of the Levites, gave an offering to the Levites for the passover, of five thousand sheep and five hundred calves.

35:10
And the service was duly ordered, and the priests stood in their place, and the Levites in their divisions, according to the command of the king.

35:11
And they slew the passover, and the priests sprinkled the blood from their hand, and the Levites flayed \add the victims\add*.

35:12
And they prepared the whole-burnt-offering to give to them, according to the division by the houses of families, \add even\add* to the sons of the people, to offer to the Lord, as it is written in the book of Moses.

35:13
And thus \add they did\add* till the morning. And they roasted the passover with fire according to the ordinance; and boiled the holy \add pieces\add* in copper vessels and caldrons, and \add the feast\add* went on well, and they quickly served all the children of the people.

35:14
And after they had prepared for themselves and for the priests, for the priests \add were engaged\add* in offering the whole-burnt-offerings and the fat until night, then the Levites prepared for themselves, and for their brethren the sons of Aaron.

35:15
And the sons of Asaph the psalm-singers \add were\add* at their post according to the commands of David, and Asaph, and Æman, and Idithom, the prophets of the king: also the chiefs and the porters of the several gates;—it was not for them to stir from the service of the holy things, for their brethren the Levites prepared for them.

35:16
So all the service of the Lord was duly ordered and prepared in that day, for keeping the passover, and offering the whole-burnt-sacrifices on the altar of the Lord, according to the command of king Josias.

35:17
And the children of Israel that were present kept the passover at that time, and the feast of unleavened bread seven days.

35:18
And there was no passover like it in Israel from the days of Samuel the prophet, or any king of Israel: they kept not such a passover as Josias, and the priests, and the Levites, and all Juda and Israel that were present, and the dwellers in Jerusalem, kept to the Lord.

35:19
d and the Lord said, I will even remove Juda also from my presence, as I have removed Israel, and I have rejected the city which I chose, \add even\add* Jerusalem, and the house of which I said, My name shall be there.

35:20
And Pharao Nechao king of Egypt went up against the king of the Assyrians to the river Euphrates, and king Josias went to meet him.

35:21
And he sent messengers to him, saying, What have I to do with thee, O king of Juda? I am not come to-day to war against thee; and God has told me to hasten: beware of the God that is with me, lest he destroy thee.

35:22
However Josias turned not his face from him, but strengthened himself to fight against him, and hearkened not to the words of Nechao by the mouth of God, and he came to fight in the plain of Mageddo.

35:23
And the archers shot at king Josias; and the king said to his servants, Take me away, for I am severely wounded.

35:24
And his servants lifted him out of the chariot, and put him in the second chariot which he had, and brought him to Jerusalem; and he died, and was buried with his fathers: and all Juda and Jerusalem lamented over Josias.

35:25
And Jeremias mourned over Josias, and all the chief men and chief women uttered a lamentation over Josias until this day: and they made it an ordinance for Israel, and, behold, it is written in the lamentations.

35:26
And the rest of the acts of Josias, and his hope, are written in the law of the Lord.

35:27
And his acts, the first and the last, behold, \add they are\add* written in the book of the kings of Israel and Juda.
