30:1
And it shall come to pass when all these things shall have come upon thee, the blessing and the curse, which I have set before thy face, and thou shalt \f + \fr 30:1 \fqa Gr. \ft receive them into thine heart.\f*call \add them\add* to mind among all the nations, wherein the Lord shall have scattered thee,

30:2
and shalt return to the Lord thy God, and shalt hearken to his voice, according to all things which I charge thee this day, with all thy heart, and with all thy soul;

30:3
then the Lord shall heal thine iniquities, and shall pity thee, and shall again gather thee out from all the nations, among which the Lord has scattered thee.

30:4
If thy dispersion be from one end of heaven to the other, thence will the Lord thy God gather thee, and thence will the Lord thy God take thee.

30:5
And the Lord thy God shall bring thee in from thence into the land which thy fathers have inherited, and thou shalt inherit it; and he will do thee good, and multiply thee above thy fathers.

30:6
And the Lord shall purge thy heart, and the heart of thy seed, to love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, that thou mayest live.

30:7
And the Lord thy God will put these curses upon thine enemies, and upon those that hate thee, who have persecuted thee.

30:8
And thou shalt return and hearken to the voice of the Lord thy God, and shall keep his commands, all that I charge thee this day.

30:9
And the Lord thy God shall bless thee in every work of thine hands, in the offspring of thy \f + \fr 30:9 \fqa Gr. \ft belly.\f*body, and in the offspring of thy cattle, and in the fruits of thy land, because the Lord thy God will again rejoice over thee for good, as he rejoiced over thy fathers:

30:10
if thou wilt hearken to the voice of the Lord thy God, to keep his commandments, and his ordinances, and his judgments written in the book of this law, if thou turn to the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul.

30:11
\f + \fr 30:11 \ft See \xt Rom. 10. 6,7,8.\f*For this command which I give thee this day is not grievous, neither is it far from thee.

30:12
It is not in heaven above, \add as if there were one\add* saying, Who shall go up for us into heaven, and shall take it for us, and we will hear and do it?

30:13
Neither is it beyond the sea, saying, Who will go over for us to the other side of the sea, and take it for us, and make it audible to us, and we will do it?

30:14
The word is very near thee, in thy mouth, and in thine heart, and in thine hands to do it.

30:15
Behold, I have set before thee this day life and death, good and evil.

30:16
If thou wilt hearken to the commands of the Lord thy God, which I command thee this day, to love the Lord thy God, to walk in all his ways, and to keep his ordinances, and his judgments; then ye shall live, and shall be many in number, and the Lord thy God shall bless thee in all the land into which thou goest to inherit it.

30:17
But if thy heart change, and thou wilt not hearken, and thou shalt go astray and worship other gods, and serve them,

30:18
I declare to you this day, that ye shall utterly perish, and ye shall by no means live long upon the land, into which ye go over Jordan to inherit it.

30:19
I call both heaven and earth to witness this day against you, I have set before you life and death, the blessing and the curse: choose thou life, that thou and thy seed may live;

30:20
to love the Lord thy God, to hearken to his voice, and cleave to him; for this \add is\add* thy life, and the length of thy days, that thou shouldest dwell upon the land, which the Lord sware to thy fathers, Abraam, and Isaac, and Jacob, to give to them.
