28:1
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,

28:2
Charge the children of Israel, and thou shalt speak to them, saying, Ye shall observe to offer to me in my feasts my gifts, my presents, my burnt-offerings for a sweet-smelling savour.

28:3
And thou shalt say to them, These are the burnt-offerings, all that ye shall bring to the Lord; two lambs of a year old without blemish daily, for a whole-burnt offering perpetually.

28:4
Thou shalt offer one lamb in the morning, and thou shalt offer the second lamb towards evening.

28:5
And thou shalt offer the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meat-offering, mingled with oil, with the fourth part of a hin.

28:6
\add It is\add* a perpetual whole-burnt-offering, a sacrifice offered in the mount of Sina for a sweet-smelling savour to the Lord.

28:7
And its drink-offering, the fourth part of a hin to each lamb; in the holy place shalt thou pour strong drink as a drink-offering to the Lord.

28:8
And the second lamb thou shalt offer toward evening; thou shalt offer it according to its meat-offering and according to its drink-offering for a smell of sweet savour to the Lord.

28:9
And on the sabbath-day ye shall offer two lambs of a year old without blemish, and two tenth deals of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat-offering, and a drink-offering.

28:10
\add It is\add* a whole-burnt-offering of the sabbaths on the sabbath days, besides the continued whole-burnt-offering, and its drink offering.

28:11
And at the new moons ye shall bring a whole-burnt-offering to the Lord, two calves of the herd, and one ram, seven lambs of a year old without blemish.

28:12
Three tenth deals of fine flour mingled with oil for one calf, and two tenth deals of fine flour mingled with oil for one ram.

28:13
A tenth deal of fine flour mingled with oil for each lamb, as a meat-offering, a sweet-smelling savour, a \f + \fr 28:13 \ft This seems to be the general meaning of κάρπωμα in LXX.\f*burnt-offering to the Lord.

28:14
Their drink-offering shall be the half of a hin for one calf; and the third of a hin for one ram; and the fourth part of a hin of wine for one lamb: this \add is\add* the whole-burnt-offering monthly throughout the months of the year.

28:15
And \add he shall offer\add* one kid of the goats for a sin-offering to the Lord; it shall be offered beside the continual whole-burnt-offering and its drink-offering.

28:16
And in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, \add is\add* the passover to the Lord.

28:17
And on the fifteenth day of this month \add is\add* a feast; seven days ye shall eat unleavened bread.

28:18
And the first day shall be to you a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work.

28:19
And ye shall bring whole-burnt-offerings, a sacrifice to the Lord, two calves of the herd, one ram, seven lambs of a year old; they shall be to you without blemish.

28:20
And their meat-offering shall be fine flour mingled with oil; three tenth deals for one calf, and two tenth deals for one ram.

28:21
Thou shalt offer a tenth for each lamb, for the seven lambs.

28:22
And \add thou shalt offer\add* one kid of the goats for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you.

28:23
Beside the perpetual whole-burnt-offering in the morning, which is a whole-burnt-sacrifice for a continuance,

28:24
these shall ye thus offer daily for \f + \fr 28:24 \fqa Alex. \ft two days.\f*seven days, a gift, a sacrifice for a sweet-smelling savour to the Lord; beside the continual whole-burnt-offering, thou shalt offer its drink-offering.

28:25
And the seventh day shall be to you a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work in it.

28:26
And on the day of the new corn, when ye shall offer a new sacrifice \add at the festival\add* of weeks to the Lord, there shall be to you a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work,

28:27
and ye shall bring whole-burnt-offerings for a sweet-smelling savour to the Lord, two calves of the herd, one ram, seven lambs without blemish.

28:28
Their meat-offering \add shall be\add* fine flour mingled with oil; there shall be three tenth deals for one calf, and two tenth deals for one ram.

28:29
A tenth for each lamb separately, for the seven lambs; and a kid of the goats,

28:30
for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you; beside the perpetual whole-burnt-offering: and

28:31
ye shall offer to me their meat-offering. They shall be to you unblemished, and ye shall offer their drink-offerings.
