29:1
And in the seventh month, on the first day of the month, there shall be to you a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work: it shall be to you a day of blowing the trumpets.

29:2
And ye shall offer whole-burnt-offerings for a sweet savour to the Lord, one calf of the herd, one ram, seven lambs of a year old without blemish.

29:3
Their meat-offering shall be fine flour mingled with oil; three tenth deals for one calf, and two tenth deals for one ram:

29:4
a tenth deal for each several ram, for the seven lambs.

29:5
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you.

29:6
Beside the whole-burnt-offerings for the new moon, and their meat-offerings, and their drink-offerings, and their perpetual whole-burnt-offering; and their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings according to their ordinance for a sweet-smelling savour to the Lord.

29:7
And on the tenth of this month there shall be to you a holy convocation; and ye shall afflict your souls, and ye shall do no work.

29:8
And ye shall bring near whole-burnt-offerings for a sweet-smelling savour to the Lord; burnt-sacrifices to the Lord, one calf of the herd, one ram, seven lambs of a year old; they shall be to you without blemish.

29:9
Their meat-offering shall be fine flour mingled with oil; three tenth deals for one calf, and two tenth deals for one ram.

29:10
A tenth deal for each several lamb, for the seven lambs.

29:11
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you; beside the sin-offering for atonement, and the continual whole-burnt-offering, its meat-offering, and its drink-offering according to its ordinance for a smell of sweet savour, a burnt-sacrifice to the Lord.

29:12
And on the fifteenth day of this seventh month ye shall have a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work; and ye shall keep it a feast to the Lord seven days.

29:13
And ye shall bring near whole-burnt-offerings, a sacrifice for a smell of sweet savour to the Lord, on the first day thirteen calves of the herd, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old; they shall be without blemish.

29:14
Their meat-offerings \add shall be\add* fine flour mingled with oil; there shall be three tenth deals for one calf, for the thirteen calves; and two tenth deals for one ram, for the two rams.

29:15
A tenth deal for every lamb, for the fourteen lambs.

29:16
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the continual whole-burnt-offering: there shall be their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings.

29:17
And on the second day twelve calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without blemish.

29:18
Their meat-offering and their drink-offering shall be for the calves and the rams and the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance.

29:19
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the perpetual whole-burnt-offering; their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings.

29:20
On the third day eleven calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without blemish.

29:21
Their meat-offering and their drink-offering shall be to the calves and to the rams and to the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance.

29:22
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the continual whole-burnt-offering; \add there shall be\add* their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings.

29:23
On the fourth day ten calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without spot.

29:24
There shall be their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings to the calves and the rams and the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance.

29:25
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the continual whole-burnt-offering \add there shall be\add* their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings.

29:26
On the fifth day nine calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without spot.

29:27
Their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings \add shall be\add* to the calves and the rams and the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance.

29:28
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the perpetual whole-burnt-offering; \add there shall be\add* their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings.

29:29
On the sixth day eight calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without blemish.

29:30
There shall be their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings to the calves and rams and lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance.

29:31
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the perpetual whole-burnt-offering; \add there shall be\add* their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings.

29:32
On the seventh day seven calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without blemish.

29:33
Their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings shall be to the calves and the rams and the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance.

29:34
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the continual whole-burnt-offering; \add there shall be\add* their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings.

29:35
And on the eighth day there shall be to you \f + \fr 29:35 \fqa Or, \ft solemn assembly. See \xt Lev. 23. 36.\f*a release: ye shall do no servile work in it.

29:36
And ye shall offer whole-burnt-offerings \add as\add* sacrifices to the Lord, one calf, one ram, seven lambs of a year old without spot.

29:37
\add There shall be\add* their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings for the calf and the ram and the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance.

29:38
And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the continual whole-burnt-offering; \add there shall be\add* their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings.

29:39
These \add sacrifices\add* shall ye offer to the Lord in your feasts, besides your vows; and \add ye shall offer\add* your free-will-offerings and your whole-burnt-offerings, and your meat-offerings and your drink-offerings, and your peace-offerings.
