2:1
They meditated troubles, and wrought wickedness on their beds, and they put it in execution with the daylight; for they have not lifted up their hands to God.

2:2
And they desired fields, and plundered orphans, and oppressed families, and spoiled a man and his house, even a man and his inheritance.

2:3
Therefore thus saith the Lord; Behold, I devise evils against this family, out of which ye shall not lift up your necks, neither shall ye walk upright speedily: for the time is evil.

2:4
In that day shall a parable be taken up against you, and a plaintive lamentation shall be uttered, saying, We are thoroughly miserable: the portion of my people has been measured out with a line, and there was none to hinder him so as to turn him back; your fields have been divided.

2:5
Therefore thou shalt have no one to cast a line for the lot.

2:6
Weep not with tears in the assembly of the Lord, neither let \add any\add* weep for these things; for he shall not remove the reproaches,

2:7
who says, The house of Jacob has provoked the Spirit of the Lord; are not these his practices? Are not the Lord's words right with him? and have they not proceeded correctly?

2:8
Even beforetime my people withstood \add him\add* as an enemy against his peace; they have stripped off his skin to remove hope \add in\add* the conflict of war.

2:9
The leaders of my people shall be cast forth from their luxurious houses; they are rejected because of their evil practices; draw ye near to the everlasting mountains.

2:10
Arise thou, and depart; for this is not thy rest because of uncleanness: ye have been utterly destroyed;

2:11
ye have fled, no one pursuing \add you: thy\add* spirit has framed falsehood, it has dropped on thee for wine and strong drink. But it shall come to pass, \add that\add* out of the dropping of this people,

2:12
Jacob shall be completely gathered with all \add his people\add*: I will surely receive the remnant of Israel; I will cause them to return together, as sheep in trouble, as a flock in the midst of their fold: they shall rush forth from among men through the breach made before them:

2:13
they have broken through, and passed the gate, and gone out by it: and their king has gone out before them, and the Lord shall lead them.
