26:1
And it came to pass in the eleventh year, on the first \add day\add* of the month, \add that\add* the word of the Lord came to me, saying,

26:2
Son of man, because Sor has said against Jerusalem, Aha, she is crushed: the nations are destroyed: she is turned to me: she that was full is made desolate:

26:3
therefore thus saith the Lord; Behold, I am against thee, O Sor, and I will bring up many nations against thee, as the sea comes up with its waves.

26:4
And they shall cast down the walls of Sor, and shall cast down thy towers: and I will scrape her dust from off her, and make her a bare rock.

26:5
She shall be in the midst of the sea a place for repairing nets: for I have spoken \add it\add*, saith the Lord: and it shall be a spoil for the nations.

26:6
And her daughters \add which are\add* in the field shall be slain with the sword, and they shall know that I am the Lord.

26:7
For thus saith the Lord; Behold, I \add will\add* bring up against thee, O Sor, Nabuchodonosor king of Babylon from the north: he is a king of kings, with horses, and chariots, and horsemen, and a concourse of very many nations.

26:8
He shall slay thy daughters that are in the field with the sword, and shall set a watch against thee, and build forts around thee, and carry a rampart round against thee, and set up warlike works, and array his spears against thee.

26:9
He shall cast down with his swords thy walls and thy towers.

26:10
By reason of the multitude of his horses their dust shall cover thee, and by reason of the sound of his horsemen and the wheels of his chariots thy walls shall be shaken, when he enters into thy gates, as one entering into a city from the plain.

26:11
With the hoofs of his horses they shall trample all thy streets: he shall slay thy people with the sword, and shall bring down to the ground the support of thy strength.

26:12
And he shall prey upon thy power, and plunder thy substance, and shall cast down thy walls, and break down thy pleasant houses: and he shall cast thy stones and thy timber and thy dust into the midst of thy sea.

26:13
And he shall destroy the multitude of thy musicians, and the sound of thy psalteries shall be heard no more.

26:14
And I will make thee a bare rock: thou shalt be a place to spread nets upon; thou shalt be built no more: for I the Lord have spoken \add it\add*, saith the Lord.

26:15
For thus saith the Lord God to Sor; Shall not the isles shake at the sound of thy fall, while the wounded are groaning, while they have drawn a sword in the midst of thee?

26:16
And all the princes of the nations of the sea shall come down from their thrones, and shall take off their crowns from their heads, and shall take off their embroidered raiment: they shall be utterly amazed; they shall sit upon the ground, and fear their \add own\add* destruction, and shall groan over thee.

26:17
And they shall take up a lamentation for thee, and shall say to thee, How art thou destroyed from out of the sea, the renowned city, that brought her terror upon all her inhabitants.

26:18
And the isles shall be alarmed at the day of thy fall.

26:19
For thus saith the Lord God; When I shall make the city desolate, as the cities that shall not be inhabited, when I have brought the deep up upon thee,

26:20
and great waters shall cover thee; and I shall bring thee down to them that go down to the pit, to the people of old time, and shall cause thee to dwell in the depths of the earth, as in everlasting desolation, with them that go down to the pit, that thou mayest not be inhabited, nor stand upon the land of life;

26:21
I will make thee a destruction, and thou shalt be no more for ever, saith the Lord God.
