7:1
Moreover the word of the Lord came to me, saying, Also, thou, son of man, say,

7:2
Thus saith the Lord; An end is come to the land of Israel, the end is come on the four corners of the land.

7:3
The end is come

7:4
on thee, the inhabitant of the land: the time is come, the day has drawn nigh, not with tumult, nor with pangs.

7:5
Now I will pour out mine anger upon thee near at hand, and I will accomplish my wrath on thee: and I will judge thee for thy ways, and recompense upon thee all thine abominations.

7:6
Mine eye shall not spare, nor will I have any mercy: for I will recompense thy ways upon thee, and thine abominations shall be in the midst of thee; and thou shalt know that I am the Lord that smite \add thee\add*.

7:7
Now the end \add is come\add* to thee, and I will send \add judgment\add* upon thee: and I will take vengeance on thy ways, and will recompense all thine abominations upon thee.

7:8
Mine eye shall not spare, nor will I have any mercy: for I will recompense thy way upon thee, and thine abominations shall be in the midst of thee; and thou shalt know that I am the Lord.

7:9
For thus saith the Lord; Behold, the end is come.

7:10
Behold, the day of the Lord! although the rod has blossomed,

7:11
pride has sprung up, and will break the staff of the wicked one, and \add that\add* not with tumult, nor with haste.

7:12
The time is come, behold the day: let not the buyer rejoice, and let not the seller mourn.

7:13
For the buyer shall never again return to the seller, neither shall a man cleave with the eye \add of hope\add* to his life.

7:14
Sound ye the trumpet, and pass sentence on all together.

7:15
\add There shall be\add* war with the sword without, and famine and pestilence within: he that is in the field shall die by the sword; and famine and pestilence shall destroy them that are in the city.

7:16
But they that escape of them shall be delivered, and shall be upon the mountains: and I will slay all \add the rest\add*, every one for his iniquities.

7:17
All hands shall be completely weakened, and all thighs shall be defiled with moisture.

7:18
And they shall gird themselves with sackcloth, and amazement shall cover them; and shame shall be upon them, \add even\add* upon every face, and baldness upon every head.

7:19
Their silver shall be cast forth in the streets, and their gold shall be despised: their souls shall not be satisfied, and their bellies shall not be filled: for it was the punishment of their iniquities.

7:20
\add As for\add* their choice ornaments, they employed them for pride, and they made of them images of their abominations: therefore have I made them uncleanness to them.

7:21
And I will deliver them into the hands of strangers to make them a prey, and to the pests of the earth for a spoil; and they shall profane them.

7:22
And I will turn away my face from them, and they shall defile my charge, and shall go in to them unguardedly, and profane them.

7:23
And they shall work uncleanness: because the land is full of strange nations, and the city is full of iniquity.

7:24
And I will turn back the boasting of their strength; and their holy things shall be defiled.

7:25
And \add though\add* propitiation shall come, and \add one\add* shall seek peace, yet there shall be none.

7:26
There shall be woe upon woe, and there shall be message upon message; and a vision shall be sought from a prophet; but the law shall perish from the priest, and counsel from the elders.

7:27
The prince shall clothe himself with desolation, and the hands of the people of the land shall be made feeble: I will do to them according to their ways, and according to their judgments will I punish them; and they shall know that I am the Lord.
