28:1
And the word of the Lord came to me, saying,

28:2
And thou, son of man, say to the prince of Tyrus, Thus saith the Lord; Because thine heart has been exalted, and thou hast said, I am God, I have inhabited the dwelling of God in the heart of the sea; yet thou art man and not God, though thou hast set thine heart as the heart of God:

28:3
art thou wiser than Daniel? or have not the wise instructed thee with their knowledge?

28:4
Hast thou gained power for thyself by thine \add own\add* knowledge or thine \add own\add* prudence, and \add gotten\add* gold and silver in thy treasures?

28:5
By thy abundant knowledge and thy traffic thou hast multiplied thy power; thy heart has been lifted up by thy power.

28:6
Therefore thus saith the Lord; Since thou hast set thine heart as the heart of God;

28:7
because of this, behold, I \add will\add* bring on thee strange plagues from the nations; and they shall draw their swords against thee, and against the beauty of thy knowledge,

28:8
and they shall bring down thy beauty to destruction. And they shall bring thee down; and thou shalt die the death of the slain in the heart of the sea.

28:9
Wilt thou indeed say, I am God, before them that slay thee? whereas thou art man, and not God.

28:10
Thou shalt perish by the hands of strangers among the multitude of the uncircumcised: for I have spoken it, saith the Lord.

28:11
And the word of the Lord came to me, saying,

28:12
Son of man, take up a lamentation for the prince of Tyre, and say to him, Thus saith the Lord God; Thou art a seal of resemblance, and crown of beauty.

28:13
Thou wast in the delight of the paradise of God; thou hast bound upon thee every precious stone, the sardius, and topaz, and emerald, and carbuncle, and sapphire, and jasper, and silver, and gold, and ligure, and agate, and amethyst, and chrysolite, and beryl, and onyx: and thou hast filled thy treasures and thy stores in thee with gold.

28:14
From the day that thou wast created thou \add wast\add* with the cherub: I set thee on the holy mount of God; thou wast in the midst of the stones of fire.

28:15
Thou wast faultless in thy days, from the day that thou wast created, until iniquity was found in thee.

28:16
Of the abundance of thy merchandise thou hast filled thy storehouses with iniquity, and hast sinned: therefore thou hast been cast down wounded from the mount of God, and the cherub has brought thee out of the midst of the stones of fire.

28:17
Thy heart has been lifted up because of thy beauty; thy knowledge has been corrupted with thy beauty: because of the multitude of thy sins I have cast thee to the ground, I have caused thee to be put to open shame before kings.

28:18
Because of the multitude of thy sins and the iniquities of thy merchandise, I have profaned thy sacred things; and I will bring fire out of the midst of thee, this shall devour thee; and I will make thee \add to be\add* ashes upon thy land before all that see thee.

28:19
And all that know thee among the nations shall groan over thee: thou art gone to destruction, and thou shalt not exist any more.

28:20
And the word of the Lord came to me, saying,

28:21
Son of man, set thy face against Sidon, and prophesy against it,

28:22
and say, Thus saith the Lord; Behold, I am against thee, O Sidon; and I will be glorified in thee; and thou shalt know that I am the Lord, when I have wrought judgments in thee, and I will be sanctified in thee.

28:23
Blood and death \add shall be\add* in thy streets; and \add men\add* wounded with swords shall fall in thee and on every side of thee; and they shall know that I am the Lord.

28:24
And there shall no more be in the house of Israel a thorn of bitterness and a pricking briar proceeding from them that are round about them, who dishonoured them; and they shall know that I am the Lord.

28:25
Thus saith the Lord God; I will also gather Israel from the nations, among whom they have been scattered, and I will be sanctified among them, and before the peoples and nations: and they shall dwell upon their land, which I gave to my servant Jacob.

28:26
Yea, they shall dwell upon it safely, and they shall build houses, and plant vineyards, and dwell securely, when I shall execute judgment on all that have dishonoured them, \add even\add* on those \add that are\add* round about them; and they shall know that I am the Lord their God, and the God of their fathers.
