22:1
And the word of the Lord came to me, saying,

22:2
And thou, son of man, wilt thou judge the bloody city? yea, declare thou to her all her iniquities.

22:3
And thou shalt say, Thus saith the Lord God: O city that sheds blood in the midst of her, so that her time should come, and that forms devices against herself, to defile herself;

22:4
in their blood which thou hast shed, thou hast transgressed; and in thy devices which thou hast formed, thou hast polluted thyself; and thou hast brought nigh thy days, and hast brought on the time of thy years: therefore have I made thee a reproach to the Gentiles, and a mockery to all the countries,

22:5
to those near thee, and to those far distant from thee; and they shall mock thee, \add thou that art\add* notoriously unclean, and abundant in iniquities.

22:6
Behold, the princes of the house of Israel have conspired in thee each one with his kindred, that they might shed blood.

22:7
In thee they have reviled father and mother; and in thee they have behaved unjustly toward the stranger: they have oppressed the orphan and widow.

22:8
And they have set at nought my holy things, and in thee they have profaned my sabbaths.

22:9
\add There are\add* robbers in thee, to shed blood in thee; and in thee they have eaten upon the mountains: they have wrought ungodliness in the midst of thee.

22:10
In thee they have uncovered the father's shame; and in thee they have humbled her that was set apart for uncleanness.

22:11
They have dealt unlawfully each one with his neighbour's wife; and each one in ungodliness has defiled his daughter-in-law: and in thee they have humbled each one his sister, the daughter of his father.

22:12
In thee they have received gifts to shed blood; they have received in thee interest and usurious increase; and by oppression thou hast brought thy wickedness to the full, and hast forgotten me, saith the Lord.

22:13
And if I shall smite my hand at \add thine iniquities\add* which thou hast accomplished, which thou hast wrought, and at thy blood that has been shed in the midst of thee,

22:14
shall thy heart endure? shall thine hands be strong in the days which I bring upon thee? I the Lord have spoken, and will do \add it\add*.

22:15
And I will scatter thee among the nations, and disperse thee in the countries, and thy uncleanness shall be removed out of thee.

22:16
And I will give heritages in thee in the sight of the nations, and ye shall know that I am the Lord.

22:17
And the word of the Lord came to me, saying,

22:18
Son of man, behold, the house of Israel are all become to me \add as it were\add* mixed with brass, and iron, and tin, and lead; they are mixed up in the midst of silver.

22:19
Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord God; Because ye have become one mixture, therefore I will gather you into the midst of Jerusalem.

22:20
As silver, and brass, and iron, and tin, and lead, are gathered into the midst of the furnace, to blow fire into it, that they may be melted: so will I take \add you\add* in my wrath, and I will gather and melt you.

22:21
And I will blow upon you in the fire of my wrath, and ye shall be melted in the midst thereof.

22:22
As silver is melted in the midst of a furnace, so shall ye be melted in the midst thereof; and ye shall know that I the Lord have poured out my wrath upon you.

22:23
And the word of the Lord came to me, saying,

22:24
Son of man, say to her, Thou art the land that is not rained upon, neither has rain come upon thee in the day of wrath:

22:25
whose princes in the midst of her are as roaring lions seizing prey, devouring souls by oppression, and taking bribes; and thy widows are multiplied in the midst of thee.

22:26
Her priests also have set at nought my law, and profaned my holy things: they have not distinguished between the holy and profane, nor have they distinguished between the unclean and the clean, and have hid their eyes from my sabbaths, and I was profaned in the midst of them.

22:27
Her princes in the midst of her are as wolves ravening to shed blood, that they may get dishonest gain.

22:28
And her prophets that daub them shall fall, that see vanities, that prophesy falsehoods, saying, Thus saith the Lord, when the Lord has not spoken.

22:29
That sorely oppress the people of the land with injustice, and commit robbery; oppressing the poor and needy, and not dealing justly with the stranger.

22:30
And I sought from among them a man behaving uprightly, and standing before me perfectly in the time of wrath, so that I should not utterly destroy her: but I found \add him\add* not.

22:31
So I have poured out my wrath upon her in the fury of mine anger, to accomplish \add it\add*. I have recompensed their ways on their own heads, saith the Lord God.
