39:1
And thou, son of man, prophesy against Gog, and say, Thus saith the Lord; Behold, I am against thee, O Gog, Rhos prince of Mesoch and Thobel:

39:2
and I will assemble thee, and guide thee, and raise thee up on the extremity of the north, and I will bring thee up upon the mountains of Israel.

39:3
And I will destroy thy bow out of thy left hand, and thine arrows out of thy right hand, and I will cast thee down on the mountains of Israel;

39:4
and thou and all that belong to thee shall fall, and the nations that are with thee shall be given to multitudes of birds, \add even\add* to every fowl, and I have given thee to all the wild beasts of the field to be devoured.

39:5
Thou shalt fall on the face of the field: for I have spoken \add it\add*, saith the Lord.

39:6
And I will send a fire upon Gog, and the islands shall be securely inhabited: and they shall know that I am the Lord.

39:7
And my holy name shall be known in the midst of my people Israel; and my holy name shall no more be profaned: and the nations shall know that I am the Lord, the Holy \add One\add* in Israel.

39:8
Behold it is come, and thou shalt know that it shall be, saith the Lord God; this is the day concerning which I have spoken.

39:9
And they that inhabit the cities of Israel shall come forth, and make a fire with the arms, the shields and spears, and bows and arrows, and hand-staves, and lances, and they shall keep fire burning with them for seven years:

39:10
and they shall not take any wood out of the field, neither shall they cut any out of the forests, but they shall burn the weapons with fire: and they shall plunder those that plundered them, and spoil those that spoiled them, saith the Lord.

39:11
And it shall come to pass \add that\add* in that day I will give to Gog a place of renown, a tomb in Israel, the burial-place of them that approach the sea: and they shall build round about the outlet of the valley, and there they shall bury Gog and all his multitude: and \add the place\add* shall then be called the burial-place of Gog.

39:12
And the house of Israel shall bury them, that the land may be cleansed in the space of seven months.

39:13
Yea, all the people of the land shall bury them; and it shall be to them a \add place\add* of renown in the day wherein it was glorified, saith the Lord.

39:14
And they shall appoint men continually to go over the land, to bury them that have been left on the face of the earth, to cleanse it after the space of seven months, and they shall seek \add them\add* out.

39:15
And every one that goes through the land, and sees a man's bone, shall set up a mark by it, until the buriers shall have buried it in the valley, the burial-place of Gog.

39:16
For the name of the city \add shall be\add* Burial-place: so shall the land be cleansed.

39:17
And thou, son of man, say, Thus saith the Lord; Say to every winged bird, and to all the wild beasts of the field, Gather yourselves, and come; gather yourselves from all \add places\add* round about to my sacrifice, which I have made for you, \add even\add* a great sacrifice on the mountains of Israel, and ye shall eat flesh, and drink blood.

39:18
Ye shall eat the flesh of mighty men, and ye shall drink the blood of the princes of the earth, rams, and calves and goats, and they are all fatted calves.

39:19
And ye shall eat fat till ye are full, and shall drink wine till ye are drunken, of my sacrifice which I have prepared for you.

39:20
And ye shall be filled at my table, \add eating\add* horse, and rider, and mighty man, and every warrior, saith the Lord.

39:21
And I will set my glory among you, and all the nations shall see my judgment which I have wrought, and my hand which I have brought upon them.

39:22
And the house of Israel shall know that I am the Lord their God, from this day and onwards.

39:23
And all the nations shall know that the house of Israel were led captive because of their sins, because they rebelled against me, and I turned away my face from them, and delivered them into the hands of their enemies, and they all fell by the sword.

39:24
According to their uncleannesses and according to their transgressions did I deal with them, and I turned away my face from them.

39:25
Therefore thus saith the Lord God, Now will I turn back captivity in Jacob, and will have mercy on the house of Israel, and will be jealous for the sake of my holy name.

39:26
And they shall bear their reproach, and the iniquity which they committed when they dwelt upon their land in peace. Yet there shall be none to terrify \add them\add*

39:27
when I have brought them back from the nations, and gathered them out of the countries of the nations: and I will be sanctified among them in the presence of the nations.

39:28
And they shall know that I am the Lord their God, when I have been manifested to them among the nations.

39:29
And I will no more turn away my face from them, because I have poured out my wrath upon the house of Israel, saith the Lord God.
