25:1
And the word of the Lord came to me, saying,

25:2
Son of man, set thy face steadfastly against the children of Ammon, and prophesy against them;

25:3
and thou shalt say to the children of Ammon, Hear ye the word of the Lord; thus saith the Lord; Forasmuch as ye have rejoiced against my sanctuary, because it was profaned; and against the land of Israel, because it was laid waste; and against the house of Juda, because they went into captivity;

25:4
therefore, behold, I \add will\add* deliver you to the children of Kedem for an inheritance, and they shall lodge in thee with their stuff, and they shall pitch their tents in thee: they shall eat thy fruits, and they shall drink thy milk.

25:5
And I will give up the city of Ammon for camels' pastures, and the children of Ammon for a pasture of sheep: and ye shall know that I am the Lord.

25:6
For thus saith the Lord; Because thou hast clapped thine hands, and stamped with thy foot, and heartily rejoiced against the land of Israel;

25:7
therefore I will stretch out my hand against thee, and I will make thee a spoil to the nations; and I will utterly destroy thee from among the peoples, and I will completely cut thee off from out of the countries: and thou shalt know that I am the Lord.

25:8
Thus saith the Lord; Because Moab has said, Behold, are not the house of Israel and Juda like all the \add other\add* nations?

25:9
Therefore, behold, I will weaken the shoulder of Moab from his frontier cities, \add even\add* the choice land, the house of Bethasimuth above the fountain of the city, by the sea-side.

25:10
I have given him the children of Kedem in addition to the children of Ammon for an inheritance, that there may be no remembrance of the children of Ammon.

25:11
And I will execute vengeance on Moab; and they shall know that I am the Lord.

25:12
Thus saith the Lord; Because of what the Idumeans have done in taking vengeance on the house of Juda, and \add because they\add* have remembered injuries, and have exacted full recompence;

25:13
therefore thus saith the Lord; I will also stretch out my hand upon Idumea, and will utterly destroy out of it man and beast; and will make it desolate; and they that are pursued out of Thæman shall fall by the sword.

25:14
And I will execute my vengeance on Idumea by the hand of my people Israel: and they shall deal in Idumea according to mine anger and according to my wrath, and they shall know my vengeance, saith the Lord.

25:15
Therefore thus saith the Lord, Because the Philistines have wrought revengefully, and raised up vengeance rejoicing from their heart to destroy \add the Israelites\add* to a man;

25:16
therefore thus saith the Lord; Behold, I \add will\add* stretch out my hand upon the Philistines, and will utterly destroy the Cretans, and will cut off the remnant that dwell by the sea-coast.

25:17
And I will execute great vengeance upon them; and they shall know that I am the Lord, when I have brought my vengeance upon them.
